# Amazon Media Storage (`OrchardCore.Media.AmazonS3`)

The Amazon Media Storage feature enables support for storing assets in Amazon S3 Bucket.

The feature replaces the default App_Data file based media store with an Amazon Media Storage Provider.

Media is still served by the Orchard Core web site, and the Media Cache module takes responsibility for fetching media, on the fly, from the Amazon S3 Bucket.

This allows the Amazon Media Storage feature to support image resizing on the fly through integration with ImageSharp.Web.

The url generated by the AssetUrl helpers, points to the Orchard Core web site.

## Configuration

The following configuration values are used by default and can be customized:

```json
{
   "OrchardCore": {
       "OrchardCore_Media_Amazon_S3": {
           // Your AWS S3 Bucket name
           "BucketName": "",
           // This section needed only if Orchard will be hosted not in the AWS Cloud
           // You can obtain all that information in the IAM Management Console
            "Credentials": {
              "SecretKey": "",
              "AccessKeyId": "",
              "RegionEndpoint": ""
           },
           // Optionally, set to a path to store media in a subdirectory inside your container.
           "BasePath": "/media",
           // If you have aws cli installed and configured you may just specify profile name
           "ProfileName": ""
       }
  }
}
```

Refer also to the [Configuration Section](../../core/Configuration/README.md),
and the [Media Section](../Media/README.md) for other Media related configuration settings.

There are two hosting options : inside and outside AWS Cloud.
In case you are hosting OrchardCore inside AWS (EC2, EKS etc.) you need to configure only `BucketName` and you may delete or comment other sections.

In case you are hosting OrchardCore outside AWS you should fill `Credentials` section or if you have aws cli installed and configured on your server you may specify only configured profile name (`defaul` if profile name was not chosen during aws cli configuration).

## AWS S3 Bucket Configuration

By default AWS 3S Bucket has limitations for newly uploaded files.
If you want media files to be available from the outside of the AWS, you should set up you bucket permissions.
Simplest way of doing it is to add a policy :
```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "AddPerm",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": "*",
            "Action": "s3:GetObject",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::YOUR-BUCKET-NAME/*"
        }
    ]
}
```
After this policy will be added to your bucket permissions all newly added files will have Read permission and will be available from the outside of the Amazon Cloud.

## Media Cache

The Media Cache feature will automatically be enabled when Amazon Media Storage is enabled.

The Media Cache feature will cache files stored from Amazon S3 Storage, to support image resizing.

The Media Cache feature allows Purging of the Media Cache files stored locally.

You might choose to use the Purging feature if you are fronting the media assets with a CDN.
After allowing a long enough period of time for the CDN to have fetched a significant amount of
Media assets, both resized, and full size, from the Media Cache you might consider purging the cache.

However please bear in mind that your CDN provider will likely have multiple Points of Presence
worldwide, and each of these will maintain their own cache, so while a local CDN PoP might have the asset
another PoP may not, until it is requested. At this stage the Media Cache will, if necessary, refetch the
asset from Amazon S3 Storage, on the fly, and provide it to the CDN PoP.

CDN providers also clear their caches at pre-determined times of their own devising, so while CDN’s
are a valuable caching and performance asset, it is important that they are always be able to
re-fetch the source file, as and when required, which the Media Cache Module will automatically handle.

!!! note
The Media Feature is designed to support one storage provider at a time, whether that is
local File Storage, the default, or Azure Blob Storage, or Amazon S3 Storage.