# Templates (`OrchardCore.Templates`)

The templates module allows editors to create custom Liquid templates.

## Available templates

Templates can be defined using the web editor, or in a theme. Templates are distinguished by their name. 
Orchard Core doesn't render HTML directly, but instead will usually render something called a **Shape**, which is an object that represents
the thing to render and has all the necessary data and metatada to render HTML.

When rendering a Shape, Orchard Core will look for specific templates, passing the Shape to this template.
Orchard Core can match with many templates for the same Shape.
These potential templates are called **Alternates**.
A Shape contains a list of acceptable template names (the alternates) and will look into providers to get the most appropriate one.
For instance, when rendering a Content Item of type Article, the corresponding Shape that is rendered will be configured
to look for a template that handles all articles, but also one that handles an article when used in a list, and so on.

This document provides a list of pre-defined templates that can be used when rendering shapes.
It uses the internal name of a template and also the filename in case it's provided by a Theme.

## Content templates

### `Content__[ContentType]`

This template is called when displaying a content item with the `Detail` display type, for instance when accessed from its own URL.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `Content__BlogPost` | `Content-BlogPost.cshtml` |
| `Content__Article` | `Content-Article.cshtml` |

#### Available properties

| Property | Description |
| --------- | ------------ |
| `Model.Content` | A zone shape that contains all the shapes generated by the content's parts and fields. |
| `Model.ContentItem` | Represents the current content item being rendered by the template. |
| `Model.ContentItem.Content` | A Json object containing all the data of the content item. |

### `Content_[DisplayType]__[ContentType]`

This template is called when displaying a content item with a specific display type.
For instance, when a content item is displayed in a list, the `Summary` display type is commonly used.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `Content_Summary__BlogPost` | `Content-BlogPost.Summary.cshtml` |
| `Content_Summary__Article` | `Content-Article.Summary.cshtml` |

## Widget templates

### `Widget__[ContentType]`

This template is called when a widget is rendered on a page.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `Widget__Paragraph` | `Widget-Paragraph.cshtml` |
| `Widget__Blockquote` | `Widget-Blockquote.cshtml` |

#### Available properties

| Property | Description |
| --------- | ------------ |
| `Model.Content` | A zone shape that contains all the shapes generated by the widget's parts and fields. |
| `Model.ContentItem` | Represents the current content item being rendered by the template. |
| `Model.ContentItem.Content` | A Json object containing all the data of the content item. |
| `Model.Classes` | An array of all the classes attached to the widget. |

## Content Part templates

Each driver is free to return a shape type of its choosing, but the usage is 
to render a content part using a shape with a name that matches the type name.
For instance the `HtmlBodyPart` content part will return a single shape of type `HtmlBodyPart`, but the `ListPart` returns many
shapes, one among them being `ListPart`.

As a consequence the following list of templates use the `[ShapeType]` term where 
most of the time it will be equal to the name of the content part. The examples use
common content part names for this reason.

### Properties

The properties available on a shape rendered for a content part are unique for each content
part. Please refer to each content part documentation.

### `[ShapeType]`

This template is called when a Content Part is rendered.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `HtmlBodyPart` | `HtmlBodyPart.cshtml` |
| `ListPartFeed` | `ListPartFeed.cshtml` |

### `[ShapeType]_[DisplayType]`

This template is called when a Content Part shape type is rendered in a specific display type.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `HtmlBodyPart_Summary` | `HtmlBodyPart.Summary.cshtml` |

### `[ContentType]_[DisplayType]__[PartType]`

This template is called when a content part type is rendered for a given content type, with or without a given display type.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `Blog__HtmlBodyPart` | `Blog-HtmlBodyPart.cshtml` |
| `LandingPage__BagPart` | `LandingPage-BagPart.cshtml` |
| `Blog_Summary__HtmlBodyPart` | `Blog-HtmlBodyPart.Summary.cshtml` |
| `LandingPage_Summary__BagPart` | `LandingPage-BagPart.Summary.cshtml` |

### `[ContentType]``_[DisplayType]__[PartName]`

This template is called when a content part name is rendered for a given content type, with or without a given display type.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `LandingPage__Services` | `LandingPage-Services.cshtml` |
| `LandingPage_Summary__Services` | `LandingPage-Services.Summary.cshtml` |

### `[ContentType]_[DisplayType]__[PartType]__[ShapeType]`

This template is called when a shape type is rendered in a given content part type for a given content type, with or without a given display type.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `Blog__ListPart__ListPartFeed` | `Blog__ListPart__ListPartFeed.cshtml` |
| `Blog_Summary__ListPart__ListPartFeed` | `Blog__ListPart__ListPartFeed.Summary.cshtml` |

### `[ContentType]_[DisplayType]__[PartName]__[ShapeType]`

This template is called when a shape type is rendered in a given content part name for a given content type, with or without a given display type.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `LandingPage__Services__CustomShape` | `LandingPage-Services-CustomShape.cshtml` |
| `LandingPage_Summary__Services__CustomShape` | `LandingPage-Services-CustomShape.Summary.cshtml` |

## Content Field templates

Each driver is free to return a shape type of its choosing but the usage is 
to render a content field using a shape with the same type name. 
For instance the `TextField` content field will return a single shape of type `TextField`,
but other fields might return many shapes.

### Properties

The properties available on a shape rendered for a content field are unique for each content
field. Please refer to each content field documentation.

### `[ShapeType]_[DisplayType]`

This template is called when a content field type is rendered in given display type.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `TextField_Summary` | `TextField.Summary.cshtml` |

### `[PartType]__[FieldName]`

This template is called when a content field name is rendered for a given content part type when the shape type matches the field type, with or without a given display type.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
|  `HtmlBodyPart__Description` |  `HtmlBodyPart-Description.cshtml` |
|  `HtmlBodyPart_Summary__Description` |  `HtmlBodyPart-Description.Summary.cshtml` |

### `[ContentType]__[PartName]__[FieldName]`

This template is called when a content field name is rendered for a given content type and content part name when the shape type matches the field type, with or without a given display type.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `Blog__HtmlBodyPart__Description` | `Blog-HtmlBodyPart-Description.cshtml` |
| `LandingPage__Services__Image` | `LandingPage-Services-Image.cshtml` |
| `Blog_Summary__HtmlBodyPart__Description` | `Blog-HtmlBodyPart-Description.Summary.cshtml` |
| `LandingPage_Summary__Services__Image` | `LandingPage-Services-Image.Summary.cshtml` |

### `[ContentType]__[FieldType]`

This template is called when a content field type is rendered for a given content type when the shape type matches the field type, with or without a given display type.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `Blog__TextField` | `Blog-TextField.cshtml` |
| `LandingPage__TextField` | `LandingPage-TextField.cshtml` |

### `[FieldType]__[ShapeType]`

This template is called when a content field shape type is rendered for a given content field type, with or without a given display type.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `CustomField__CustomFieldSummary` | `CustomField-CustomFieldSummary.cshtml` |
| `CustomField_Summary__CustomFieldSummary` | `CustomField-CustomFieldSummary.Summary.cshtml` |

### `[PartType]__[FieldName]__[ShapeType]`

This template is called when a content field shape type is rendered for a given content field name in a given content part type, with or without a given display type.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
|  `HtmlBodyPart__Description__CustomFieldSummary`| `HtmlBodyPart__Description__CustomFieldSummary.cshtml` |
|  `HtmlBodyPart_Summary__Description__CustomFieldSummary`| `HtmlBodyPart__Description__CustomFieldSummary.Summary.cshtml` |

### `[ContentType]__[PartName]__[FieldName]__[ShapeType]`

This template is called when a content field shape type is rendered for a given content field name in a given content part name in a given content type, with or without a given display type.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `Blog__HtmlBodyPart__Description__CustomFieldSummary` | `Blog-HtmlBodyPart-Description-CustomFieldSummary.cshtml` |
| `LandingPage__Services__Description__CustomFieldSummary` | `LandingPage-Services-Description-CustomFieldSummary.cshtml` |
| `Blog_Summary__HtmlBodyPart__Description__CustomFieldSummary` | `Blog-HtmlBodyPart-Description-CustomFieldSummary.Summary.cshtml` |
| `LandingPage_Summary__Services__Description__CustomFieldSummary` | `LandingPage-Services-Description-CustomFieldSummary.Summary.cshtml` |

### `[ContentType]__[FieldType]__[ShapeType]`

This template is called when a content field shape type is rendered for a given content field type in a given content type, with or without a given display type.

#### Examples

| Template | Filename|
| --------- | ------------ |
| `Blog__TextField__TextFieldSummary` | `Blog-TextField-TextFieldSummary.cshtml` |
| `LandingPage__TextField__TextFieldSummary` | `LandingPage-TextField-TextFieldSummary.cshtml` |

## Shape differentiators

The differentiator uniquely identifies a shape in a zone. When rendering a content item, the shape has a `Content` property that contains
all the shapes provided by content display drivers, including the ones for content parts and content fields.

Differentiators can be used to configure the placement information (c.f. [Placement documentation page](../../OrchardCore/OrchardCore.DisplayManagement/README)), or to access specific shapes in a zone using these template helpers:

### Content Part differentiator

If the shape type is the same as the content part name, the shape will be named `[PartName]`, e.g. `HtmlBodyPart`, `Services`.
If the shape type is different than the content part name, it will be `[PartName]-[ShapeType]`, e.g. `ListPart-ListPartFeed`

### Content Field differentiator

If the shape type is the same as the content field name, the shape will be named `[PartName]-[FieldName]`, e.g. `HtmlBodyPart-Description`, `Services-Image`.
If the shape type is different than the content field name, it will be `[PartName]-[FieldName]-[ShapeType]`, e.g. `HtmlBodyPart-Description-CustomFieldSummary`, `Services-Image-ImageFieldSummary`

#### Razor

Access a specific shape by name
```
Model.Content.HtmlBodyPart
```

Removing a specific shape by name
```
Model.Content.Remove("HtmlBodyPart");
```

#### Liquid

Display a shape after removing a specific shape by name
```liquid
{% shape_remove_item Model.Content "HtmlBodyPart" %}
{{ Model.Content | shape_render }}
```

Display a specific shape by name
```liquid
{{ Model.Content.HtmlBodyPart | shape_render }}
```

To access or render the shapes for a field that is added to the content type directly, the `[PartName]` is equal to the content type.
For instance, given a content type `Article` with a Text field named `Description`, the shapes for this field would be named `"Article-Description"`. Render these shapes in Liquid would be:

```liquid
{{ Model.Content["Article-Description"] | shape_render }}
```

In this example the indexer syntax is necessary as the name of the differentiator is not compatible with Liquid language.

Instead of rendering the shape directly, you can also access its properties. In the case of a text field you have access to the `Field` property which has a `Text` property.

```liquid
{{ Model.Content["Article-Description"].Field.Text }}
```
