src/docs/reference/modules/Features/README.md, before:

# Features (`OrchardCore.Features`)

List of features available in Orchard Core:

| Name | Available |
| ------ | ------------ |
| Site Setup | Pre-Alpha |
| Setup steps (Configuration, Features, Import content) in Json | Pre-Alpha |
| Administration | Pre-Alpha |
| Custom Admin Menus | Beta 3 |
| Menu | Alpha |
| Navigation API | Pre-Alpha |
| Content Types | Pre-Alpha |
| Content Parts  | Pre-Alpha |
| Content Fields (Text, Numeric, Link, Boolean) | Pre-Alpha |
| Edit and Display modes for fields | Beta 3 |
| Date, Time and Local DateTime Fields  | Beta 3 |
| Content Picker | Beta 3 |
| Predefined list | Beta 3 |
| Content Items API | Pre-Alpha |
| Content Live preview | Alpha |
| Content Status: Draft, Published | Alpha |
| Versionable Content | Beta 2 |
| File based Content Definition | Beta 3 |
| HTML editor | Alpha |
| Markdown editor | Alpha |
| Custom Settings | Alpha |
| Multi-tenancy | Pre-Alpha |
| Tenants management | Alpha |
| Tenants API | Beta 3 |
| Features by tenant | Beta 3 |
| Static File provider by tenant | Beta 3 |
| Document database: YesSql | Pre-Alpha |
| SQL Provider independent | Alpha |
| Deployment (Import/Export) | Alpha |
| Liquid Templating | Beta |
| Custom Liquid Filters | Beta |
| Theming | Beta |
| Alternates (Override views) | Beta |
| Resource manager | Pre-Alpha |
| CDN support | Alpha |
| Widgets | Beta |
| Zones (Layout sections in which you add widgets) | Beta |
| Layers (Display widgets depending on a rule) | Beta |
| Scripting (JS) | Alpha |
| Page with widgets | Beta 2 |
| Forms | Beta 2 |
| Asset Management | Beta |
| Media Picker | Beta 2 |
| Azure Blob Storage | Beta 2 |
| Image Resizing | Beta |
| Mass Upload | Beta |
| Modules support | Pre-Alpha |
| Modules management | Alpha |
| Friendly Urls | Alpha |
| Custom aliases | Beta |
| Homepage | Alpha |
| List module | Pre-Alpha |
| Migrations | Beta |
| Taxonomies | Beta 3 |
| RSS Feeds | Alpha |
| XmlRpc/MetaWeblog API | Alpha |
| Workflows | Beta 2 |
| Users management | Pre-Alpha |
| Roles management | Pre-Alpha |
| Permissions | Pre-Alpha |
| Content type permissions | Beta 3 |
| Facebook authentication | Beta 3 |
| Google authentication | Beta 3 |
| Microsoft authentication | Beta 3 |
| Microsoft Azure AD authentication | Beta 3 |
| Twitter authentication | Beta 3 |
| Data Protection | Beta 2 |
| ReCaptcha | Beta 3 |
| Google Analytics | Beta 3 |
| User registration | Beta 2 |
| Email verification | Beta 2 |
| Password reset | Beta 2 |
| Open Id: Authorization server, JWT | Beta 2 |
| HTTPS redirection | Beta 3 |
| Email messaging | Beta 2 |
| Logging: NLog, Serilog | Beta 3 |
| Indexing/Search | Alpha |
| Queries (Lucene, SQL) | Beta |
| GraphQL | Beta 3 |
| Background tasks | Pre-Alpha |
| Dynamic caching | Beta 2 |
| Fragment caching | Beta 2 |
| Response caching | Beta 3 |
| Views localization (PO Files) | Beta |
| Cultures | Beta 3 |
| Time zones | Beta 3 |
| User time zone | Beta 3 |
| Mini Profiler | Beta 3 |
| Health Check | Beta 3 |
| Reverse Proxy | Beta 3 |
| Response compression | Beta 3 |
| The Agency Theme | Beta |
| The Blog Theme | Beta 2 |
| The Coming soon Theme | Beta 3 |
| Content Localization | RC |
| RTL admin theme | RC |
| Localization packages | RC |
| Resources CDN | RC |
| Media CDN support | RC |
| GitHub authentication| RC |
| Facebook applications RC |
| .NET Core 3.0 | RC |
| Azure Media resizing | RC |
| SQL fields indexing| RC |
| Full Text aspect| RC |

These features are currently in development or expected for an upcoming version of Orchard Core:

| Name | Available |
| ------ | ------------ |
| Seo | - |
| Site Map | - |
| Distributed hosting | - |
| Jobs queue | - |
| Output caching | - |
| Entities API | - |
| Versioning | - |
| Extensible User Profiles | - |
| GraphQL mutations | - |

Commit message:

Adding overview to the Features module reference

src/docs/reference/modules/Features/README.md, after:

# Features (`OrchardCore.Features`)

The Features module enables the administrator of the site to manage the installed modules as well as activate and de-activate features within those modules.

List of features available in Orchard Core:

| Name | Available |
| ------ | ------------ |
| Site Setup | Pre-Alpha |
| Setup steps (Configuration, Features, Import content) in Json | Pre-Alpha |
| Administration | Pre-Alpha |
| Custom Admin Menus | Beta 3 |
| Menu | Alpha |
| Navigation API | Pre-Alpha |
| Content Types | Pre-Alpha |
| Content Parts  | Pre-Alpha |
| Content Fields (Text, Numeric, Link, Boolean) | Pre-Alpha |
| Edit and Display modes for fields | Beta 3 |
| Date, Time and Local DateTime Fields  | Beta 3 |
| Content Picker | Beta 3 |
| Predefined list | Beta 3 |
| Content Items API | Pre-Alpha |
| Content Live preview | Alpha |
| Content Status: Draft, Published | Alpha |
| Versionable Content | Beta 2 |
| File based Content Definition | Beta 3 |
| HTML editor | Alpha |
| Markdown editor | Alpha |
| Custom Settings | Alpha |
| Multi-tenancy | Pre-Alpha |
| Tenants management | Alpha |
| Tenants API | Beta 3 |
| Features by tenant | Beta 3 |
| Static File provider by tenant | Beta 3 |
| Document database: YesSql | Pre-Alpha |
| SQL Provider independent | Alpha |
| Deployment (Import/Export) | Alpha |
| Liquid Templating | Beta |
| Custom Liquid Filters | Beta |
| Theming | Beta |
| Alternates (Override views) | Beta |
| Resource manager | Pre-Alpha |
| CDN support | Alpha |
| Widgets | Beta |
| Zones (Layout sections in which you add widgets) | Beta |
| Layers (Display widgets depending on a rule) | Beta |
| Scripting (JS) | Alpha |
| Page with widgets | Beta 2 |
| Forms | Beta 2 |
| Asset Management | Beta |
| Media Picker | Beta 2 |
| Azure Blob Storage | Beta 2 |
| Image Resizing | Beta |
| Mass Upload | Beta |
| Modules support | Pre-Alpha |
| Modules management | Alpha |
| Friendly Urls | Alpha |
| Custom aliases | Beta |
| Homepage | Alpha |
| List module | Pre-Alpha |
| Migrations | Beta |
| Taxonomies | Beta 3 |
| RSS Feeds | Alpha |
| XmlRpc/MetaWeblog API | Alpha |
| Workflows | Beta 2 |
| Users management | Pre-Alpha |
| Roles management | Pre-Alpha |
| Permissions | Pre-Alpha |
| Content type permissions | Beta 3 |
| Facebook authentication | Beta 3 |
| Google authentication | Beta 3 |
| Microsoft authentication | Beta 3 |
| Microsoft Azure AD authentication | Beta 3 |
| Twitter authentication | Beta 3 |
| Data Protection | Beta 2 |
| ReCaptcha | Beta 3 |
| Google Analytics | Beta 3 |
| User registration | Beta 2 |
| Email verification | Beta 2 |
| Password reset | Beta 2 |
| Open Id: Authorization server, JWT | Beta 2 |
| HTTPS redirection | Beta 3 |
| Email messaging | Beta 2 |
| Logging: NLog, Serilog | Beta 3 |
| Indexing/Search | Alpha |
| Queries (Lucene, SQL) | Beta |
| GraphQL | Beta 3 |
| Background tasks | Pre-Alpha |
| Dynamic caching | Beta 2 |
| Fragment caching | Beta 2 |
| Response caching | Beta 3 |
| Views localization (PO Files) | Beta |
| Cultures | Beta 3 |
| Time zones | Beta 3 |
| User time zone | Beta 3 |
| Mini Profiler | Beta 3 |
| Health Check | Beta 3 |
| Reverse Proxy | Beta 3 |
| Response compression | Beta 3 |
| The Agency Theme | Beta |
| The Blog Theme | Beta 2 |
| The Coming soon Theme | Beta 3 |
| Content Localization | RC |
| RTL admin theme | RC |
| Localization packages | RC |
| Resources CDN | RC |
| Media CDN support | RC |
| GitHub authentication| RC |
| Facebook applications RC |
| .NET Core 3.0 | RC |
| Azure Media resizing | RC |
| SQL fields indexing| RC |
| Full Text aspect| RC |

These features are currently in development or expected for an upcoming version of Orchard Core:

| Name | Available |
| ------ | ------------ |
| Seo | - |
| Site Map | - |
| Distributed hosting | - |
| Jobs queue | - |
| Output caching | - |
| Entities API | - |
| Versioning | - |
| Extensible User Profiles | - |
| GraphQL mutations | - |
