# Orchard Core 1.6.0

Release date: Not yet released

## Breaking Changes

### Users

The `OrchardCore.Users` module now provides multiple new permissions for added control on user related functions. 

In previous versions, `View Users` permission was enough to show the `Users` menu item. However, with the newly added permissions, `ListUsers` or at least one `ListUsersInRole_{0}` variation is required to see the `Users` menu. The `View Users` permission now only allows you to view user's profile. The permission `ManageUsers` is a super user permission which grants all access to manage user including user settings.

Here is a list of the new permissions

| Permission | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `ListUsers` | allows listing all users. |
| `EditUsers` | allow editing any user. |
| `DeleteUsers` | allows deleting any user. |

 The following permissions will be available if `OrchardCore.Roles` feature in enabled.

 | Permission | Description |
 | --- | --- |
 | `AssignRoleToUsers` | allows assigning any role to users. |
 | `ListUsersInRole_{0}` | allows listing users in a given role. |
 | `EditUsersInRole_{0}` | allows editing users in a given role. |
 | `DeleteUsersInRole_{0}` | allows deleting users in a given role. |
 | `AssignRoleToUsers_{0}` | allows assigning users to a given role. |

### Features and Recipes

`OrchardCore.Features` is no longer auto enabled by `OrchardCore.Recipes` as it doesn't depend on it anymore. If you find yourself using recipes services like `IRecipeMigrator` in your module, be sure to add a dependency on `OrchardCore.Recipes.Core` feature in your module's Manifest file to ensures that the recipe services are available before using them.

If your are using setup recipes and want to enable `Features`, be sure to explicitly enable `OrchardCore.Feature` feature.

## Change Logs

Prior this release, a user with `ViewContent` permission and has access to the dashboard, automatically gets access to "Content Items". Now, to be able to list contents on the dashboard, a user needs `ListContent` permission instead. 
