# Orchard Core 1.8.0

Release date: Not yet released

## Breaking Changes

### TheAdmin Theme

The `TheAdmin` theme was upgraded to Bootstrap 5.3.2. Here is a list of the breaking changes

 - The `bg-primary` class was changed to `text-bg-theme`.
 - The `darkmode` theme is now called `dark`.
 - The `default` theme is now called `light`.
 - By default, the theme is set to `auto` which allows us to use the default device color preference.
 - Metrial-icons are no longer included.
 - The `DarkModeService.cs` was replaced with `ThemeTogglerService`.
 - The prperty named `DisplayDarkMode` in `AdminSettings` was replaced with `DisplayThemeToggler`.
 - Bootstrap is no longer compiled in `TheAdmin.css`. Bootstrap are loaded independently for performance and maintainability reasons.

### Workflow Module

A new option for restarting a specific Workflow instance has been incorporated, involving adjustments to both the `IActivity` and `IWorkflowManager` interfaces.The following method was added to `IWorkflowManager` interface.

 - `Task<WorkflowExecutionContext> RestartWorkflowAsync(WorkflowType workflowType, IDictionary<string, object> input = null, string correlationId = null)`
 
 The following methods were added to the `IActivity` interface.

 - `Task OnWorkflowRestartingAsync(WorkflowExecutionContext context, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)`
 - `Task OnWorkflowRestartedAsync(WorkflowExecutionContext context)`

 ### Navbar

 The `NavbarTop` zone is no longer used in the `TheAdmin` or `TheTheme` themes. Follow the Navbar details below on how to inject custom menu items in the navbar.

### Diagnostics Module

The HTTP error views are now in the form of shapes. If you have error views customization within your theme, you'll need to relocate them from `YourTheme/Views/OrchardCore.Diagnostics/Diagnostics` to `YourTheme/Views`. 

Likewise, should you come across any of the following views within the `Shared` directory of your theme, relocate them directly to the `Views` folder.

 - `BadRequest.cshtml` or `BadRequest.liquid`
 - `Forbidden.cshtml` or `Forbidden.liquid`
 - `NotFound.cshtml` or `NotFound.liquid`
 - `Unauthorized.cshtml` or `Unauthorized.liquid`
 - `HttpStatusCode.cshtml` or `HttpStatusCode.liquid`

Furthermore, in the event of customization, you'll need to rename the `Error.cshtml` view to `HttpStatusCode.cshtml`, as this serves as the default template for error pages.

## Change Logs

### TheTheme Theme

The `TheTheme` theme was upgraded to Bootstrap 5.3.2. New `light` and `dark` modes were added.

### Navbar

The upper navigation bar has been transformed into a customizable shape, allowing for easy integration of items. The `NavbarTop` zone is no longer used in the `TheAdmin` or `TheTheme` themes. If you wish to add a menu item to the navigation bar, simply create a display driver for `Navbar`. 

As an illustration, we inject the theme toggler into both `Detail` and `DetailAdmin` display type using a display driver as outlined below:

```csharp
public class ToggleThemeNavbarDisplayDriver : DisplayDriver<Navbar>
{
    public override IDisplayResult Display(Navbar model)
    {
        return View("ToggleTheme", model)
            .Location("Detail", "Content:10")
            .Location("DetailAdmin", "Content:10");
    }
}
```

 Additionally, the follow shapes have been removed
 - `ContentCulturePickerContainer`
 - `AdminCulturePickerContainer`
