# Orchard Core 1.9.0

Release date: Not yet released

## Breaking Changes

### Drop `Newtonsoft.Json` Support

The utilization of [Newtonsoft.Json](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Newtonsoft.Json) has been discontinued in both **YesSql** and **OrchardCore**. Instead, we have transitioned to utilize `System.Text.Json` due to its enhanced performance capabilities. To ensure compatibility with `System.Text.Json` during the serialization or deserialization of objects, the following steps need to be undertaken:

  - If you are using a custom deployment steps, change how you register it by using the new `AddDeployment<>` extension. This extension adds a new service that is required for proper serialization. For instance, instead of registering your deployment step like this:

```csharp
services.AddTransient<IDeploymentSource, AdminMenuDeploymentSource>();
services.AddSingleton<IDeploymentStepFactory>(new DeploymentStepFactory<AdminMenuDeploymentStep>());
services.AddScoped<IDisplayDriver<DeploymentStep>, AdminMenuDeploymentStepDriver>();
```

change it to the following:

```csharp
services.AddDeployment<AdminMenuDeploymentSource, AdminMenuDeploymentStep, AdminMenuDeploymentStepDriver>();
```

  - If you are using a custom AdminMenu node, change how you register it by using the new `AddAdminNode<>` extension. This extension adds a new service that is required for proper serialization. For instance, instead of registering your custom admin menu nodep like this:

```csharp
services.AddSingleton<IAdminNodeProviderFactory>(new AdminNodeProviderFactory<PlaceholderAdminNode>());
services.AddScoped<IAdminNodeNavigationBuilder, PlaceholderAdminNodeNavigationBuilder>();
services.AddScoped<IDisplayDriver<MenuItem>, PlaceholderAdminNodeDriver>();
```

change it to the following:

```csharp
services.AddAdminNode<PlaceholderAdminNode, PlaceholderAdminNodeNavigationBuilder, PlaceholderAdminNodeDriver>();
```

  - Any serializable object that contains a polymorphic property (a base type that can contain sub-classes instances) needs to register all possible sub-classes this way:

```csharp
services.AddJsonDerivedTypeInfo<UrlCondition, Condition>();
```

In particular, any type introduced in custom modules inheriting from `MenuItem`, `AdminNode`, `Condition`, `ConditionOperator`, `Query`, `SitemapType` will have to use this method.

 - The extension `PopulateSettings<T>(model)` was removed from `PartFieldDefinition`. If you are using this method in your code, you'll have to get the settings using the `Settings` object directly. For instance, if you have this code,

 ```csharp
 public override IDisplayResult Edit(ContentPartFieldDefinition partFieldDefinition)
 {
    return Initialize<NumericFieldSettings>("NumericFieldSettings_Edit", model => partFieldDefinition.PopulateSettings(model));
 }
 ```

 You'll change it to the following:

 ```csharp
  public override IDisplayResult Edit(ContentPartFieldDefinition partFieldDefinition)
 {
    return Initialize<NumericFieldSettings>("NumericFieldSettings_Edit", model => 
    {
        var settings = partFieldDefinition.Settings.ToObject<NumericFieldSettings>();
        model.Hint = settings.Hint;
        // ...
    });
 }
 ```

### Media Indexing

Previously, `.pdf` files were automatically indexed in the search providers (Elasticsearch, Lucene or Azure AI Search). Now, if you want to continue to index `.PDF` file you'll need to enable the `OrchardCore.Media.Indexing.Pdf` feature.

Additionally, if you need to enable indexing for text file with `.txt`, `.md` extensions, you will need the `OrchardCore.Media.Indexing.Text` feature.

If you need to enable indexing for other extensions like (`.docx`, or `.pptx`), you will need the `OrchardCore.Media.Indexing.OpenXML` feature.

### SMS Module

In the past, we utilized the injection of `ISmsProvider` for sending SMS messages. However, in this release, it is now necessary to inject `ISmsService` instead.

Additionally, `Twilio` provider is no longer enabled by default. If you want to use Twilio SMS provider, you must enable the provider by visiting the email settings `Configuration` > `Settings` > `Email` and see the `Twilio` tab.


## Change Logs

### Azure AI Search Module

Introducing a new "Azure AI Search" module, designed to empower you in the administration of Azure AI Search indices. When enabled with the "Search" module, it facilitates frontend full-text search capabilities through Azure AI Search. For more info read the [Azure AI Search](../reference/modules/AzureAISearch/README.md) docs.

### Deployment Module

Added new extensions to make registering custom deployment step easier:

- `services.AddDeployment<TSource, TStep>()`.
- `services.AddDeployment<TSource, TStep, TDisplayDriver>()`.
- `services.AddDeploymentWithoutSource<TStep, TDisplayDriver>()`.

### Workflow Module

 The method `Task TriggerEventAsync(string name, IDictionary<string, object> input = null, string correlationId = null, bool isExclusive = false, bool isAlwaysCorrelated = false)` 
 was changed to return `Task<IEnumerable<WorkflowExecutionContext>>` instead.

### GraphQL Module

When identifying content types for GraphQL exposure, we identify those without a stereotype to provide you with control over the behavior of stereotyped content types. A new option, `DiscoverableSterotypes`, has been introduced in `GraphQLContentOptions`. This allows you to specify stereotypes that should be discoverable by default.

For instance, if you have several content types stereotyped as `ExampleStereotype`, you can make them discoverable by incorporating the following code into the startup class:

```csharp
services.Configure<GraphQLContentOptions>(options =>
{
    options.DiscoverableSterotypes.Add("ExampleStereotype");
});
```

### Email Module

The `OrchardCore.Email` module has undergone a refactoring process with no breaking changes. However, there are compile-time warnings that are recommended to be addressed. Here is a summary of the changes:

 - Previously, we used the injection of `ISmtpService` for sending email messages. In this release, it is now necessary to inject `IEmailService` instead.
 - The `SMTP` related services are now part of a new module named `OrchardCore.Email.Smtp`. To use the SMTP provider for sending emails, enable the `OrchardCore.Email.Smtp` feature.
 - If you were using the `OrchardCore_Email` configuration key to set up the SMTP provider for all tenants, please update the configuration key to `OrchardCore_Email_Smtp`. The `OrchardCore_Email` key continues to work but will be deprecated in a future release.
 - A new email provider was added to allow you to send email using Azure Communication Services Email. Click [here](../reference/modules/Email.Azure/README.md) to read more about the ACS module.
 
### Admin Menu

The admin menu has undergone performance enhancements, and new helpers have been added. When incorporating `INavigationProvider` in your project, you can now utilize `NavigationHelper.IsAdminMenu(name)` instead of the previous approach using `string.Equals(name, "admin", StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase)`. Moreover, when passing route values to an action, it is advised to store them in a constant variable. An illustrative example is provided below.

```csharp
public class AdminMenu : INavigationProvider
{
    private static readonly RouteValueDictionary _routeValues = new()
    {
        { "area", "OrchardCore.Settings" },
        { "groupId", AdminSiteSettingsDisplayDriver.GroupId },
    };

    protected readonly IStringLocalizer S;

    public AdminMenu(IStringLocalizer<AdminMenu> stringLocalizer)
    {
        S = stringLocalizer;
    }

    public Task BuildNavigationAsync(string name, NavigationBuilder builder)
    {
        if (!NavigationHelper.IsAdminMenu(name))
        {
            return Task.CompletedTask;
        }

        builder
            .Add(S["Configuration"], configuration => configuration
                .Add(S["Settings"], settings => settings
                    .Add(S["Admin"], S["Admin"].PrefixPosition(), admin => admin
                        .AddClass("admin")
                        .Id("admin")
                        .Action("Index", "Admin", _routeValues)
                        .Permission(PermissionsAdminSettings.ManageAdminSettings)
                        .LocalNav()
                    )
                )
            );

        return Task.CompletedTask;
    }
}
```

### Admin Routes

The `[Admin]` attribute now has optional parameters for a custom route template and route name. It works just like the `[Route(template, name)]` attribute, except it prepends the configured admin prefix. You can apply it to the controller or the action; if both are specified then the action's template takes precedence. The route name can contain `{area}`, `{controller}`, and `{action}`, which are substituted during mapping so the names can be unique for each action. This means you don't have to define these admin routes in your module's `Startup` class anymore, but that option is still available and supported. Take a look at this example:

```csharp
[Admin("Person/{action}/{id?}", "Person{action}")]
public class PersonController : Controller
{
    [Admin("Person", "Person")]
    public IActionResult Index() { ... }

    public IActionResult Create() { ... }

    public IActionResult Edit(string id) { ... }
}
```

In this example, (if the admin prefix remains the default "Admin") you can reach the Index action at `~/Admin/Person` (or by the route name `Person`), because its own action-level attribute took precedence. You can reach Create at `~/Admin/Person/Create` (route name `PersonCreate`) and Edit for the person whose identifier string is "john-doe" at `~/Admin/Person/john-doe` (route name `PersonEdit`).

### Users Module

Added a new User Localization feature that allows to be able to configure the culture per user from the admin UI.

### Navbar

Added a new `Navbar()` function to Liquid to allow building the `Navbar` shape using Liquid. Here are the steps needed to add the `Navbar` shape into your custom Liquid shape:

1. Construct the shape at the beginning of the `layout.liquid` file to enable navbar items to potentially contribute to the resources output as necessary.

```
{% assign navbar = Navbar() | shape_render %}
```
2. Subsequently in the `layout.liquid` file, invoke the shape at the location where you want to display it.

```
{{ navbar }}
```
