# Orchard Core 2.0.0

Release date: September 9, 2024. 

🎉 **Orchard Core 2.0 Is Here – Elevate Your Projects to the Next Level!** 🎉

We are thrilled to announce the **second major release** of Orchard Core! This release is packed with **performance improvements**, **bug fixes**, and a variety of **enhancements** that make it our best version yet. Whether you're building a new project or maintaining an existing one, Orchard Core 2.0 brings stability and power to your fingertips.

### 🚀 Why Upgrade to Orchard Core 2.0?

- **Enhanced Performance**: Your sites and applications will run faster, smoother, and more efficiently.
- **Rock-Solid Stability**: We've squashed numerous bugs, ensuring a more reliable and enjoyable development experience.
- **Seamless Development**: By sticking to version control best practices, we've ensured **no breaking changes** in any patch or minor release, allowing developers to confidently create modules and libraries that will work across the entire 2.x series.

### 🎯 Module and Library Developers, Take Note!

Want to create a module or library for Orchard Core 2.0? We've made it easier than ever to build with confidence. Simply set your dependencies to `[2.0, 3.0)` to ensure full compatibility with future updates, without worrying about breaking changes.

## Important Upgrade Instructions

Prior to making the leap to Orchard Core 2.0, it's crucial to follow a step-by-step upgrade process. Begin by upgrading your current version to 1.8, resolving any obsolete warnings encountered along the way, and guaranteeing that every site successfully operates on version 1.8.3. This approach ensures that all sites are seamlessly transitioned to 1.8. Subsequently, proceed with confidence to upgrade to 2.0. Prior to initiating this upgrade, thoroughly review the documented list of breaking changes provided below to facilitate a smooth and hassle-free transition.

## Breaking Changes

### Drop `Newtonsoft.Json` Support

The utilization of [Newtonsoft.Json](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Newtonsoft.Json) has been discontinued in both **YesSql** and **OrchardCore**. Instead, we have transitioned to utilize `System.Text.Json` due to its enhanced performance capabilities. To ensure compatibility with `System.Text.Json` during the serialization or deserialization of objects, the following steps need to be undertaken:

  - If you are using a custom deployment steps, change how you register it by using the new `AddDeployment<>` extension. This extension adds a new service that is required for proper serialization. For instance, instead of registering your deployment step like this:

```csharp
services.AddTransient<IDeploymentSource, AdminMenuDeploymentSource>();
services.AddSingleton<IDeploymentStepFactory>(new DeploymentStepFactory<AdminMenuDeploymentStep>());
services.AddScoped<IDisplayDriver<DeploymentStep>, AdminMenuDeploymentStepDriver>();
```

change it to the following:

```csharp
services.AddDeployment<AdminMenuDeploymentSource, AdminMenuDeploymentStep, AdminMenuDeploymentStepDriver>();
```

  - If you are using a custom AdminMenu node, change how you register it by using the new `AddAdminNode<>` extension. This extension adds a new service that is required for proper serialization. For instance, instead of registering your custom admin menu nodep like this:

```csharp
services.AddSingleton<IAdminNodeProviderFactory>(new AdminNodeProviderFactory<PlaceholderAdminNode>());
services.AddScoped<IAdminNodeNavigationBuilder, PlaceholderAdminNodeNavigationBuilder>();
services.AddScoped<IDisplayDriver<MenuItem>, PlaceholderAdminNodeDriver>();
```

change it to the following:

```csharp
services.AddAdminNode<PlaceholderAdminNode, PlaceholderAdminNodeNavigationBuilder, PlaceholderAdminNodeDriver>();
```

  - Any serializable object that contains a polymorphic property (a base type that can contain sub-classes instances) needs to register all possible sub-classes this way:

```csharp
services.AddJsonDerivedTypeInfo<UrlCondition, Condition>();
```

Alternatively, you can simplify your code by using the newly added extensions to register custom conditions. For example,

```csharp
services.AddRule<HomepageCondition, HomepageConditionEvaluator, HomepageConditionDisplayDriver>();
```

 - Any type introduced in custom modules inheriting from `MenuItem`, `AdminNode`, `Condition`, `ConditionOperator`, `Query`, `SitemapType` will have to register the class using the `services.AddJsonDerivedTypeInfo<>` method. For example,

```csharp
services.AddJsonDerivedTypeInfo<SqlQuery, Query>();
```

 - The extension `PopulateSettings<T>(model)` was removed from `PartFieldDefinition`. If you are using this method in your code, you'll have to get the settings using the `Settings` object directly. For instance, if you have this code,

 ```csharp
 public override IDisplayResult Edit(ContentPartFieldDefinition partFieldDefinition)
 {
    return Initialize<NumericFieldSettings>("NumericFieldSettings_Edit", model => partFieldDefinition.PopulateSettings(model));
 }
 ```

 You'll change it to the following:

 ```csharp
  public override IDisplayResult Edit(ContentPartFieldDefinition partFieldDefinition)
 {
    return Initialize<NumericFieldSettings>("NumericFieldSettings_Edit", model => 
    {
        var settings = partFieldDefinition.GetSettings<NumericFieldSettings>();
        model.Hint = settings.Hint;
        // ...
    });
 }
 ```

### Queries

Previously, any query type had to inherit from `Query` and required its own distinct type (e.g., `SqlQuery`, `LuceneQuery`, `ElasticQuery`). However, with [pull request #16402](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16402), creating a custom type for each query type is no longer necessary. This update involved changes to the `IQueryManager` and `IQuerySource` interfaces, as well as the `Query` class. Additionally, a new project, `OrchardCore.Queries.Core`, was introduced.

A migration process has been implemented to transition existing queries into the new structure, ensuring no impact on existing tenants. 

#### Key Changes

- **Modification of Interfaces and Classes**: Updates were made to the `IQueryManager`, `IQuerySource` interface, and `Query` class to accommodate the new structure.
- **Addition of `OrchardCore.Queries.Core`**: This new project supports the updated query handling mechanism.

#### Implementing `IQuerySource`

We now request implementations of `IQuerySource` using keyed services. Below is an example of how to register new implementations:

```csharp
services.AddQuerySource<SqlQuerySource>(SqlQuerySource.SourceName);
```

This approach allows for more flexible and modular query handling in OrchardCore.

#### Handlers

We now have handlers for dealing with queries. To manipulate a query using a handler, implement the `IQueryHandler` interface. This provides a structured way to extend and customize the behavior of queries within the framework.

### Twitter Module

The `Twitter` module has been rebranded to `X`.

If you were using the `OrchardCore_Twitter` configuration key to configure the module, please update the configuration key to `OrchardCore_X`. The `OrchardCore_Twitter` key continues to work but will be deprecated in a future release.

### Users Module

- The `Login.cshtml` has undergone a significant revamp. The previous `AfterLogin` zone, which allowed filters for injecting shapes, has been replaced. Now, you can inject shapes using drivers by implementing `IDisplayDriver<LoginForm>`. For example, the 'Forgot Password?' link is injected using the following driver:

```csharp
public class ForgotPasswordLoginFormDisplayDriver : DisplayDriver<LoginForm>
{
    private readonly ISiteService _siteService;

    public ForgotPasswordLoginFormDisplayDriver(ISiteService siteService)
    {
        _siteService = siteService;
    }

    public override async Task<IDisplayResult> EditAsync(LoginForm model, BuildEditorContext context)
    {
        var settings = await _siteService.GetSettingsAsync<ResetPasswordSettings>();

        if (!settings.AllowResetPassword)
        {
            return null;
        }

        return View("LoginFormForgotPassword_Edit", model).Location("Links:5");
    }
}
```

- The `ForgotPassword.cshtml` has undergone a significant revamp. The previous `AfterForgotPassword` zone, which allowed filters for injecting shapes, has been replaced. Now, you can inject shapes using drivers by implementing `IDisplayDriver<ForgotPasswordForm>`. For example, the ReCaptcha shape is injected using the following driver:

```csharp
public class ReCaptchaForgotPasswordFormDisplayDriver : DisplayDriver<ForgotPasswordForm>
{
    private readonly ISiteService _siteService;

    public ReCaptchaForgotPasswordFormDisplayDriver(ISiteService siteService)
    {
        _siteService = siteService;
    }

    public override async Task<IDisplayResult> EditAsync(ForgotPasswordForm model, BuildEditorContext context)
    {
        var settings = await _siteService.GetSettingsAsync<ReCaptchaSettings>();

        if (!settings.IsValid())
        {
            return null;
        }

        return View("FormReCaptcha_Edit", model).Location("Content:after");
    }
}
```

- The `ResetPassword.cshtml` has undergone a significant revamp. The previous `AfterResetPassword` zone, which allowed filters for injecting shapes, has been replaced. Now, you can inject shapes using drivers by implementing `IDisplayDriver<ResetPasswordForm>`. For example, the ReCaptcha shape is injected using the following driver:

```csharp
public class ReCaptchaResetPasswordFormDisplayDriver : DisplayDriver<ResetPasswordForm>
{
    private readonly ISiteService _siteService;

    public ReCaptchaResetPasswordFormDisplayDriver(ISiteService siteService)
    {
        _siteService = siteService;
    }

    public override async Task<IDisplayResult> EditAsync(ResetPasswordForm model, BuildEditorContext context)
    {
        var settings = await _siteService.GetSettingsAsync<ReCaptchaSettings>();

        if (!settings.IsValid())
        {
            return null;
        }

        return View("FormReCaptcha_Edit", model).Location("Content:after");
    }
}
```

Previously, users were only able to reset their password through email when the "Reset Password" feature was enabled. However, we've enhanced this functionality to offer users the flexibility of resetting their password using either their email or username. Consequently, the `Email` property on both the `ForgotPasswordViewModel` and `ResetPasswordViewModel` have been deprecated and should be replaced with the new `UsernameOrEmail` property for password resets.

- The `Register.cshtml` has undergone a significant revamp. The previous `AfterRegister` zone, which allowed filters for injecting shapes, has been replaced. Now, you can inject shapes using drivers by implementing `IDisplayDriver<RegisterUserForm>`. For example, the ReCaptcha shape is injected using the following driver:

```csharp
public class RegisterUserFormDisplayDriver : DisplayDriver<RegisterUserForm>
{
    private readonly ISiteService _siteService;

    public RegisterUserFormDisplayDriver(ISiteService siteService)
    {
        _siteService = siteService;
    }

    public override async Task<IDisplayResult> EditAsync(RegisterUserForm model, BuildEditorContext context)
    {
        var settings = await _siteService.GetSettingsAsync<ReCaptchaSettings>();

        if (!settings.IsValid())
        {
            return null;
        }

        return View("FormReCaptcha_Edit", model).Location("Content:after");
    }
}
```

- Two-factor authentication (2FA) is now available for all users. Previously, only users with permission to access the admin area could set up their own 2FA methods, although all users could still use 2FA if it was set up by an admin. To enable this change, the method `IsRequiredAsync()` in both the `ITwoFactorAuthenticationHandlerCoordinator` and `ITwoFactorAuthenticationHandler` interfaces has been updated to `IsRequiredAsync(IUser user)`.

- A new `UserConfirmedEvent` workflow event is now available. This event is triggered when a user successfully confirms their email address using the link sent during user registration.

- We are introducing a new interface, `IUserTimeZoneService`, to replace the existing `UserTimeZoneService`. If your project directly injects `UserTimeZoneService`, you will need to switch to using `IUserTimeZoneService` instead.

### Notifications Module

The endpoint for marking notifications as read has been updated. Previously the route was `/api/notifications/read`, and now it is `/Notifications/MarkAsRead`. This change will only affect you if you have overridden the `UserNotificationNavbar` view.

### Contents

The `IContentManager` interface was modified. The method `Task<IEnumerable<ContentItem>> GetAsync(IEnumerable<string> contentItemIds, bool latest = false)` was removed. Instead use the method that accepts `VersionOptions` by providing either `VersionOptions.Latest` or `VersionOptions.Published` will be used by default.

Additionally, the `GetContentItemByHandleAsync(string handle, bool latest = false)` and `GetContentItemByIdAsync(string contentItemId, bool latest = false)` were removed from `IOrchardHelper`. Instead use the method that accepts `VersionOptions` by providing either `VersionOptions.Latest` or `VersionOptions.Published` will be used by default.

Lastly, we dropped support for AllVersions option in `VersionOptions`. Instead, you can use the new `GetAllVersionsAsync(string contentItemId)` method on `IContentManager`.

### Media Indexing

Previously, `.pdf` files were automatically indexed in the search providers (Elasticsearch, Lucene or Azure AI Search). Now, if you want to continue to index `.PDF` file you'll need to enable the `OrchardCore.Media.Indexing.Pdf` feature.

Additionally, if you need to enable indexing for text file with `.txt`, `.md` extensions, you will need the `OrchardCore.Media.Indexing.Text` feature.

If you need to enable indexing for other extensions like (`.docx`, or `.pptx`), you will need the `OrchardCore.Media.Indexing.OpenXML` feature.

### SMS Module

In the past, we utilized the injection of `ISmsProvider` for sending SMS messages. However, in this release, it is now necessary to inject `ISmsService` instead.

Additionally, `Twilio` provider is no longer enabled by default. If you want to use Twilio SMS provider, you must enable the provider by visiting the email settings `Configuration` > `Settings` > `Email` and see the `Twilio` tab.

### Display Management

In this release, the signatures of the `UpdateAsync()` method within the `SectionDisplayDriver` base class have undergone modifications. Previously, these signatures accepted the `BuildEditorContext` parameter. However, with this update, all signatures now require the `UpdateEditorContext` instead. This alteration necessitates that every driver inheriting from this class adjusts their contexts accordingly.

Here are the updated signatures:

1. **From:**
   `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TModel model, BuildEditorContext context)`
   **To:**
   `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TModel model, UpdateEditorContext context)`

2. **From:**
   `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TModel model, TSection section, BuildEditorContext context)`
   **To:**
   `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TModel model, TSection section, UpdateEditorContext context)`

3. **From:**
   `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TSection section, BuildEditorContext context)`
   **To:**
   `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TSection section, UpdateEditorContext context)`. This method is now obsolete.

These adjustments ensure compatibility and adherence to the latest conventions within the `DisplayDriver` class.

Additionally, we've enhanced display performance by optimizing the display drivers. The following methods have been marked as obsolete:

- `IDisplayResult Display(TModel model)`
- `IDisplayResult Edit(TModel model)`

the following methods have been removed, with updated alternatives provided:

- `Task<IDisplayResult> DisplayAsync(TModel model, IUpdateModel updater)` → Use `DisplayAsync(TModel model, BuildDisplayContext context)` where the `Updater` property is available via `context`.
- `IDisplayResult Display(TModel model, IUpdateModel updater)` → Use `Display(TModel model, BuildDisplayContext context)` where the `Updater` property is available via `context`.
- `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TModel model, IUpdateModel updater)` → Use `UpdateAsync(TModel model, UpdateEditorContext context)` where the `Updater` property is available via `context`.
- `Task<IDisplayResult> EditAsync(TModel model, IUpdateModel updater)` → Use `EditAsync(TModel model, BuildEditorContext context)` where the `Updater` property is available via `context`.
- `IDisplayResult Edit(TModel model, IUpdateModel updater)` → Use `Edit(TModel model, BuildEditorContext context)` where the `Updater` property is available via `context`.

In addition, we've introduced new static methods in the `DisplayDriverBase` class:

- `Task<IDisplayResult> CombineAsync(params IDisplayResult[] results)`
- `Task<IDisplayResult> CombineAsync(IEnumerable<IDisplayResult> results)`

The same refactoring applies to the `SectionDisplayDriver` class. The following methods are now obsolete:

- `Display(TSection section, BuildDisplayContext context)`
- `Display(TSection section)`
- `Edit(TSection section, BuildEditorContext context)`
- `UpdateAsync(TSection section, UpdateEditorContext context)`
- `UpdateAsync(TSection section, IUpdateModel updater, string groupId)`

And the following methods have been removed, with updated alternatives:

- `UpdateAsync(TModel model, TSection section, IUpdateModel updater, UpdateEditorContext context)` → Use `UpdateAsync(TModel model, TSection section, UpdateEditorContext context)` where the `Updater` is available via `context`.
- `UpdateAsync(TSection section, IUpdateModel updater, UpdateEditorContext context)` → Use `UpdateAsync(TModel model, TSection section, UpdateEditorContext context)` where the `Updater` is available via `context`.
- `UpdateAsync(TSection section, IUpdateModel updater, string groupId)` → Use `UpdateAsync(TModel model, TSection section, UpdateEditorContext context)` where the `Updater` and `GroupId` properties are available via `context`.
- `UpdateAsync(TSection section, UpdateEditorContext context)` → Use `UpdateAsync(TModel model, TSection section, UpdateEditorContext context)` where the `Updater` is available via `context`.
- `EditAsync(TSection section, BuildEditorContext context)` → Use `EditAsync(TModel model, TSection section, BuildEditorContext context)` where the `Updater` is available via `context`.
- `DisplayAsync(TSection section, BuildDisplayContext context)` → Use `DisplayAsync(TModel model, TSection section, BuildDisplayContext context)` where the `Updater` is available via `context`.

!!! note
    To enhance your project's performance, address any warnings generated by the use of these obsolete methods. Please note that these methods will be removed in the next major release.

A new `SiteDisplayDriver` base class was introduced to simplify the process of adding a UI settings.
 
!!! note
    With the new `SiteDisplayDriver` base class for custom settings, you no longer need explicit checks like `context.GroupId.Equals(GroupId, StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase)` as the base class handles this check for you.

A new extension has been introduced to simplify the registration of site setting drivers. Instead of using `service.AddScoped<IDisplayDriver<ISite>, CustomSettingsDisplayDriver>()`, you can now register it with the more streamlined `service.AddSiteDisplayDriver<CustomSettingsDisplayDriver>()`.

Similarly, the `ContentPartDisplayDriver` base class have undergone modifications. The following methods were marked obsolete:

- `IDisplayResult Display(TPart part)`
- `IDisplayResult Edit(TPart part)`
- `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TPart part, IUpdateModel updater)`

At the same time, the following method was removed:

- `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TPart part, IUpdateModel updater)`

Moreover, the `ContentFieldDisplayDriver` base class have undergone modifications. The following methods were marked obsolete:

- `UpdateAsync(TField field, IUpdateModel updater, UpdateFieldEditorContext context)`
- `Update(TField field, IUpdateModel updater, UpdateFieldEditorContext context)`

At the same time, the following method was added:

- `UpdateAsync(TField field, UpdateFieldEditorContext context)`

### GraphQL Module

The GraphQL schema may change because fields are now always added to the correct part. Previously, additional fields may have been added to the parent content item type directly. 

You may have to adjust your GraphQL queries in that case.

Additionally, the `GetAliases` method in the `IIndexAliasProvider` interface is now asynchronous and has been renamed to `GetAliasesAsync`. Implementations of this interface should be modified by updating the method signature and ensure they handle asynchronous operations correctly.

#### Media fields

The schema for media fields has been updated. Instead of separate lists for `fileNames`, `urls`, `paths`, and `mediatexts`, these fields are now grouped under a single `files` type to simplify data binding on the front end.

Please update your existing queries as shown in the following example:

Before:

```graphql
{
  article {
    contentItemId
    image {
      mediatexts(first: 10)
      urls(first: 10)
    }
  }
}
```

After:

```graphql
{
  article {
    contentItemId
    image {
      files(first: 10) {
        mediaText
        url
      }
    }
  }
}
```

A compatibility switch has been introduced to allow continued use of the old `fileNames`, `urls`, `paths`, and `mediatexts` fields. To restore the legacy fields, add the following AppContext switch to your startup class:

```csharp
AppContext.SetSwitch("OrchardCore.Media.EnableLegacyMediaFieldGraphQLFields", true);
```

### Resource Management

Previously the `<resources type="..." />` Razor tag helper and the `{% resources type: "..." %}` Liquid tag were only capable of handling a hard-coded set of resource definition types (`script`, `stylesheet`, etc). Now both can be extended with `IResourcesTagHelperProcessor` to run custom rendering logic. To make this possible, the `OrchardCore.ResourceManagement.TagHelpers.ResourceType` and `OrchardCore.Resources.Liquid.ResourcesTag.ResourceType` enums have been replaced with a common `OrchardCore.ResourceManagement.ResourceTagType`. It was renamed to avoid confusion with `ResourceDefinition.Type`. This change does not affect the uses of the Razor tag helper or the Liquid tag in templates of user projects, but it affects published releases such as NuGet packages. Any themes and modules that contain `<resources type="..." />` in a Razor file (e.g. _Layout.cshtml_) must be re-released to generate the updated `.cshtml.cs` files, because the old pre-compiled templates would throw `MissingMethodException`.

### Workflows Module

Previously, the `CreateContentTask`, `RetrieveContentTask`, and `UpdateContentTask` in the workflow's CorrelationId was updated each time with the ContentItemId of the current content item. Now, the CorrelationId value will only be updated if the current workflow's CorrelationId is empty.

Additionally, a new workflow-scoped script function `setCorrelationId(id:string): void` was added, that you can use to update the workflow's CorrelationId.

### Navigations Module

The `BuildNavigationAsync` method in the `INavigationProvider` interface was optimized by changing its return type from `Task` to `ValueTask`.

## Change Logs

### Azure AI Search Module

Introducing a new "Azure AI Search" module, designed to empower you in the administration of Azure AI Search indices. When enabled with the "Search" module, it facilitates frontend full-text search capabilities through Azure AI Search. For more info read the [Azure AI Search](../reference/modules/AzureAISearch/README.md) docs.

### New ImageSharp Image Caches for Azure Blob and AWS S3 Storage

The Microsoft Azure Media and Amazon S3 Media modules have new features for replacing the default `PhysicalFileSystemCache` of ImageSharp that stores resized images in the local `App_Data` folder. Instead, you can now use Azure Blob Storage with the Azure Media ImageSharp Image Cache feature (that utilizes [`AzureBlobStorageImageCache`](https://docs.sixlabors.com/articles/imagesharp.web/imagecaches.html#azureblobstorageimagecache)), and AWS S3 with the Amazon Media ImageSharp Image Cache feature (that utilizes [`AWSS3StorageCache`](https://docs.sixlabors.com/articles/imagesharp.web/imagecaches.html#awss3storagecache)). Depending on your use case, this can provide various advantages. Check out [the Azure Media](../reference/modules/Media.Azure/README.md) and [the Amazon S3 Media](../reference/modules/Media.AmazonS3/README.md) docs for details.

### Deployment Module

#### New Extensions

Added new extensions to make registering custom deployment step easier:

- `services.AddDeployment<TSource, TStep>()`.
- `services.AddDeployment<TSource, TStep, TDisplayDriver>()`.
- `services.AddDeploymentWithoutSource<TStep, TDisplayDriver>()`.

#### Recipe Executions

Before this release, implementations of `IRecipeStepHandler` or `IRecipeEventHandler` would throw exceptions to report errors if something failed to import. However, this is no longer the recommended approach for error reporting.

Now, to handle errors, we have introduced a new property named `Errors` in the `RecipeExecutionContext`. This property allows you to log errors instead of throwing exceptions. These errors should be localized and must not contain any sensitive data, as they are visible to the end user. Exceptions are still used for logging additional information, but these are not shown to the end user.

Additionally, if an error occurs, a new custom exception, RecipeExecutionException, is thrown. For more info visit the [related pull-request](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16148/).

### Workflows Module

 The method `Task TriggerEventAsync(string name, IDictionary<string, object> input = null, string correlationId = null, bool isExclusive = false, bool isAlwaysCorrelated = false)` 
 was changed to return `Task<IEnumerable<WorkflowExecutionContext>>` instead.

#### New Events

 The following events were added:

- `UserConfirmedEvent`: this event triggers when a user successfully confirms their email address after registration.

### GraphQL Module

When identifying content types for GraphQL exposure, we identify those without a stereotype to provide you with control over the behavior of stereotyped content types. A new option, `DiscoverableSterotypes`, has been introduced in `GraphQLContentOptions`. This allows you to specify stereotypes that should be discoverable by default.

For instance, if you have several content types stereotyped as `ExampleStereotype`, you can make them discoverable by incorporating the following code into the startup class:

```csharp
services.Configure<GraphQLContentOptions>(options =>
{
    options.DiscoverableSterotypes.Add("ExampleStereotype");
});
```

The GraphQL module now allows for filtering content fields, making it easier to query specific content fields using GraphQL. This enhancement relies on having the `OrchardCore.ContentFields.Indexing.SQL` module enabled.

To filter content items based on a specific content field, you can use a query like this:

```graphql
product(where: {price: {amount_gt: 10}}) {
    contentItemId
    displayText
    price {
        amount
    }
}
```

### Email Module

The `OrchardCore.Email` module has undergone a refactoring process with no breaking changes. However, there are compile-time warnings that are recommended to be addressed. Here is a summary of the changes:

 - Previously, we used the injection of `ISmtpService` for sending email messages. In this release, it is now necessary to inject `IEmailService` instead.
 - The `SMTP` related services are now part of a new module named `OrchardCore.Email.Smtp`. To use the SMTP provider for sending emails, enable the `OrchardCore.Email.Smtp` feature.
 - If you were using the `OrchardCore_Email` configuration key to set up the SMTP provider for all tenants, please update the configuration key to `OrchardCore_Email_Smtp`. The `OrchardCore_Email` key continues to work but will be deprecated in a future release.
 - A new email provider was added to allow you to send email using Azure Communication Services Email. Click [here](../reference/modules/Email.Azure/README.md) to read more about the ACS module.
 
### Menu

`Menus` and `AdminMenus` now support specifying the target property.

### Admin Menu

The admin menu has been optimized with significant performance improvements and code enhancements. When adding a navigation provider to the admin menu, it is now recommended to use the new `AdminNavigationProvider` class rather than directly implementing the `INavigationProvider` interface in your project.

Furthermore, when passing route values to actions, it's a best practice to store these values in constant variables for maintainability and clarity. Below is an example demonstrating this approach:

```csharp
public sealed class AdminMenu : AdminNavigationProvider
{
    private static readonly RouteValueDictionary _routeValues = new()
    {
        { "area", "OrchardCore.Settings" },
        { "groupId", AdminSiteSettingsDisplayDriver.GroupId },
    };

    internal readonly IStringLocalizer S;

    public AdminMenu(IStringLocalizer<AdminMenu> stringLocalizer)
    {
        S = stringLocalizer;
    }

    protected override ValueTask BuildAsync(NavigationBuilder builder)
    {
        builder
            .Add(S["Configuration"], configuration => configuration
                .Add(S["Settings"], settings => settings
                    .Add(S["Admin"], S["Admin"].PrefixPosition(), admin => admin
                        .AddClass("admin")
                        .Id("admin")
                        .Action("Index", "Admin", _routeValues)
                        .Permission(PermissionsAdminSettings.ManageAdminSettings)
                        .LocalNav()
                    )
                )
            );

        return ValueTask.CompletedTask;
    }
}
```

A new extension has been introduced to simplify the registration of navigation providers. Instead of using `services.AddNavigationProvider<AdminMenu>()`, you can now register it with the more streamlined `services.AddNavigationProvider<AdminMenu>();`.

### Admin Routes

The `[Admin]` attribute now has optional parameters for a custom route template and route name. It works just like the `[Route(template, name)]` attribute, except it prepends the configured admin prefix. You can apply it to the controller or the action; if both are specified then the action's template takes precedence. The route name can contain `{area}`, `{controller}`, and `{action}`, which are substituted during mapping so the names can be unique for each action. This means you don't have to define these admin routes in your module's `Startup` class anymore, but that option is still available and supported. Take a look at this example:

```csharp
[Admin("Person/{action}/{id?}", "Person{action}")]
public sealed class PersonController : Controller
{
    [Admin("Person", "Person")]
    public IActionResult Index() { ... }

    public IActionResult Create() { ... }

    public IActionResult Edit(string id) { ... }
}
```

In this example, (if the admin prefix remains the default "Admin") you can reach the Index action at `~/Admin/Person` (or by the route name `Person`), because its own action-level attribute took precedence. You can reach Create at `~/Admin/Person/Create` (route name `PersonCreate`) and Edit for the person whose identifier string is "john-doe" at `~/Admin/Person/john-doe` (route name `PersonEdit`).

### Users Module

Added a new User Localization feature that allows to be able to configure the culture per user from the admin UI.

### Navbar

Added a new `Navbar()` function to Liquid to allow building the `Navbar` shape using Liquid. Here are the steps needed to add the `Navbar` shape into your custom Liquid shape:

1. Construct the shape at the beginning of the `layout.liquid` file to enable navbar items to potentially contribute to the resources output as necessary.

```
{% assign navbar = Navbar() | shape_render %}
```
2. Subsequently in the `layout.liquid` file, invoke the shape at the location where you want to display it.

```
{{ navbar }}
```

### Notifications Module

The`INotificationMessage` interface was updated to includes the addition of a `Subject` field, which facilitates the rendering of notification titles. Moreover, the existing `Summary` field has been transitioned to HTML format. This adjustment enables the rendering of HTML notifications in both the navigation bar and the notification center. Consequently, HTML notifications can now be created, affording functionalities such as clickable notifications.

Furthermore, the introduction of the `NotificationOptions` provides configuration capabilities for the notifications module. This structure comprises the following attributes:

- **`TotalUnreadNotifications`**: This property specifies the maximum number of unread notifications that are displayed in the navigation bar. By default, it is set to 10.
- **`DisableNotificationHtmlBodySanitizer`**: Notifications generated from workflows have their `HtmlBody` sanitized by default. This property allows you to disable the sanitization process if needed.
- **`AbsoluteCacheExpirationSeconds`**: Specifies the absolute maximum duration, in seconds, for which the top unread user notifications are cached when caching is enabled. A value of 0 does not disable caching but indicates that there is no fixed expiration time for the cache. You can set this value to define a maximum lifespan for the cached data before it is invalidated.
- **`SlidingCacheExpirationSeconds`**: Defines the sliding cache duration, in seconds, for unread user notifications when caching is enabled. By default, the cache is refreshed and extended for up to 1800 seconds (30 minutes) after each user activity. To disable sliding expiration, you can set this value to 0.

### Secure media files

Introduces a new "Secure Media" feature for additional control over who can access media files. For more info read the [Secure Media](../reference/modules/Media/README.md#secure-media) docs.

### Users Module

Enhanced functionality has been implemented, giving developers the ability to control the expiration time of different tokens, such as those for password reset, email confirmation, and email change, which are sent through the email service. Below, you'll find a comprehensive list of configurable options along with their default values: 
 
 | Class Name | Default Expiration Value |
 | ---------- | ------------------------ |
 | `ChangeEmailTokenProviderOptions` | The token is valid by default for **15 minutes**. |
 | `EmailConfirmationTokenProviderOptions` | The token is valid by default for **48 hours**. |
 | `PasswordResetTokenProviderOptions` | The token is valid by default for **15 minutes**. |

 You may change the default values of these options by using the `services.Configure<>` method. For instance, to change the `EmailConfirmationTokenProviderOptions` you can add the following code to your project

 ```csharp
 services.Configure<EmailConfirmationTokenProviderOptions>(options => options.TokenLifespan = TimeSpan.FromDays(7));
 ```

### Reloading Tenants

The recent addition in the [Pull Request](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15875) introduces the `IShellReleaseManager`, enabling you to initiate a shell release at the request's conclusion via the `RequestRelease()` method. This action is accessible from any service within the application. However, there's no assurance of immediate fulfillment since another service may utilize the same service and suspend the release request later. Should you need to suspend the request to release the shell, you can utilize the `SuspendReleaseRequest()` method to suspend the tenant release request and the tenant will not be released.

#### Reloading Tenants Display Drivers

When implementing a site settings display driver, you have the option to reload the shell (restart the tenant). If you choose to do so, manually releasing the shell context using `await _shellHost.ReleaseShellContextAsync(_shellSettings)` is unnecessary. Instead, you should use the new `IShellReleaseManager.RequestRelease()`. This ensures that the shell stays intact until all settings are validated. For instance, in `ReverseProxySettingsDisplayDriver`, the code was modified from this:

```csharp
public class ReverseProxySettingsDisplayDriver : SiteDisplayDriver<ReverseProxySettings>
{
    //
    // For  example simplicity, other methods are not visible.
    //

    public override async Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(ISite site, ReverseProxySettings settings, UpdateEditorContext context)
    {
        var user = _httpContextAccessor.HttpContext?.User;

        if (!await _authorizationService.AuthorizeAsync(user, Permissions.ManageReverseProxySettings))
        {
            return null;
        }

        //
        // For  example simplicity, other logic are not visible.
        //

        // If the settings are valid, release the current tenant.
        if (context.Updater.ModelState.IsValid)
        {
            await _shellHost.ReleaseShellContextAsync(_shellSettings);
        }

        return await EditAsync(site, settings, context);
    }
}
```

To this:

```csharp
public class ReverseProxySettingsDisplayDriver : SiteDisplayDriver<ReverseProxySettings>
{
    private readonly IShellReleaseManager _shellReleaseManager;
    private readonly IHttpContextAccessor _httpContextAccessor;
    private readonly IAuthorizationService _authorizationService;

    public ReverseProxySettingsDisplayDriver(
        // (1) Inject the new service.
        IShellReleaseManager shellReleaseManager
        IHttpContextAccessor httpContextAccessor,
        IAuthorizationService authorizationService)
    {
        _shellReleaseManager = shellReleaseManager;
        _httpContextAccessor = httpContextAccessor;
        _authorizationService = authorizationService;
    }

    //
    // For  example simplicity, other methods are not visible.
    //

    public override async Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(ISite site, ReverseProxySettings settings, UpdateEditorContext context)
    {
        var user = _httpContextAccessor.HttpContext?.User;

        if (!await _authorizationService.AuthorizeAsync(user, Permissions.ManageReverseProxySettings))
        {
            return null;
        }

        //
        // For  example simplicity, other logic are not visible.
        //

        // (2) Request a release at the end of the request.
        _shellReleaseManager.RequestRelease();

        return await EditAsync(site, settings, context);
    }
}
```

### Infrastructure

Prior to this release, if you had a module with multiple features, you had to use the `[Feature("your feature id")]` attribute to assign `IShapeTableProvider`, `IDataMigration`, and `IPermissionProvider` to a specific feature of the module that had a feature ID other than the module ID. With [pull-request 15793](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15793), this is no longer needed. However, `[Feature("...")]` is still required for the `Startup` class and controllers when you want the controller action to be available only when a specific feature is enabled.

### Site Settings

 - New extension methods named `GetSettingsAsync<T>()` and `GetSettingsAsync<T>("")` were added to the `ISiteService` interface. These methods allow you to retrieve specific settings with a single line of code. For example, to get the `LoginSettings`, you can now use:

```csharp
await _siteService.GetSettingsAsync<LoginSettings>();
```

Previously, achieving the same result required more code:

```csharp
(await _siteService.GetSiteSettingsAsync()).As<LoginSettings>();
```

 - A new extension method named `GetCustomSettingsAsync()` was added to the `ISiteService` interface. This method allows you to retrieve [custom settings](../reference/modules/CustomSettings/README.md). For example, to get custom settings of type 'BlogSettings', you can now use:

```csharp
ContentItem blogSettings = await _siteService.GetCustomSettingsAsync("BlogSettings");
```

Previously, achieving the same result required more code:

```csharp
var siteSettings = await _siteService.GetSiteSettingsAsync();
var blogSettings = siteSettings.As<ContentItem>("BlogSettings");
```

### Content Fields

Before this release, the `MarkdownField` used a single-line input field by default (named the Standard editor) and offered two different editors: Multi-line with a simple `textarea` and WYSIWYG with a rich editor. Now, by default, it uses a `textarea` as the Standard editor, and the separate Multi-line option has been removed.

You have nothing to do, fields configured with the Standard or Multi-line editors previously will both continue to work. Note though, that their editors will now be a `textarea`.

### Liquid

The `Culture` context variable got the new properties for a fuller Liquid culture support: `DisplayName`, `NativeName`, and `TwoLetterISOLanguageName`. These are the same as their .NET counterparts.

A new filter named `supported_cultures` was added to allow you to get a list of supported cultures. Here is an example of how to print the names of supported cultures using a list:

```
{% assign cultures = Culture | supported_cultures %}

<ul>
{% for culture in cultures %}
    <li>{{ culture.Name }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>
```

### Adding properties with additional tag helpers

The new `<add-property>` tag helper can be placed inside the `<shape>` tag helpers to add properties to the shape. This is similar to `prop-*` attributes, but you can also include Razor code as the `IHtmlContent` property value, which was impossible before. See more details [here](../reference/core/Placement/README.md#adding-properties-with-additional-tag-helpers).

### Sealing Types

Many type commonly used by modules can be `sealed`, which improves runtime performance. While it's not mandatory, we recommend that you consider applying this improvement to your own extensions as well. We've implemented this enhancement in the following pull-requests:

- [16253](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16253)
- [16238](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16238) 
- [16464](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16464)
- [16535](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16535)
- [16536](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16536)
- [16576](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16576)

!!! note
    Do not seal classes that are used to create shapes like view-models. Sealing these classes can break your code at runtime, as these classes need to be unsealed to allow for proxy creation.

### Workflow Trimming

The Workflows module now has a `Trimming` feature to automatically clean up old workflow instances. See [the corresponding documentation](../reference/modules/Workflows/README.md#trimming) for details.

### Obsoleting `TrimEnd`

The methods `public static string TrimEnd(this string value, string trim = "")` from `OrchardCore.Mvc.Utilities` and `OrchardCore.ContentManagement.Utilities` are being obsoleted and replaced by 
`OrchardCore.ContentManagement.Utilities.TrimEndString(this string value, string suffix)`. This was done to prepare the code base for the next .NET 9.0 release which has a conflicting method 
with a different behavior.

### Miscellaneous

A new extension has been introduced to simplify the registration of permission providers. Instead of using `service.AddScoped<IPermissionProvider, CustomPermissionProvider>()`, you can now register it with the more streamlined `service.AddPermissionProvider<CustomPermissionProvider>()`.

## What's Changed

* Start to 1.9-preview by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14976
* Add support for Azure AI Search (Azure Cognitive Search) by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14925
* Update NJsonSchema 11.0.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14981
* Show warnings when Azure AI Search is not configured by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14988
* Use PagerAsync and PagerSlimAsync instead of using dynamic New by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14978
* Update ResourceManager.cs to better handle resources that don't specify a version by @mroskamp in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14992
* Add Keyed services support in ShellScopeServices by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14998
* Update Jint 3.0.0-beta-2059 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15000
* Update BenchmarkDotNet 0.13.12 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15001
* Update xUnit 2.6.5 & xUnit Analyzers 1.9.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15002
* Set a default display name only when none is specified by @giannik in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15013
* Move Media Indexing into a new module to simplify dependencies. by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14989
* Fix dependencies for GraphQL by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15015
* Fix Media Field dependency by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15017
* Docs about the Jean-Thierry Kéchichian Community Award (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-135) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15006
* Add request localization settings to the configured one by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14866
* .NET 8.0.1 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15023
* Allow configuring Azure Search AI from UI or appsettings. by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15004
* Fix pluralization arguments for admin list summaries by @thatplatypus in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14611
* mediafield-attached media -use user friendly file name if exists by @giannik in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14782
* Register Search Member Access Strategy in the search module by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15035
* Add environment accessor in Liquid by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15027
* Service cleanup in Azure AI Search by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15063
* Add NullValue to IndexingConstants by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15072
* Use FrozenDictionary by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15040
* Update editorconfig file by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15038
* Add AddDeployment extensions by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15069
* Fix Display Name by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15080
* Update Contributors docs (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-138) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15037
* Microsoft.Identity.Web 2.16.1 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15085
* Add OrchardCore_Redis:DisableSSLCertificate option (#15077) by @ovekaaven in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15084
* Update DocumentFormat.OpenXml 3.0.1 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15091
* fix: title empty if AddSegment is not called by @PiemP in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14295
* Add ISmsService and support multiple SMS Providers by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14774
* Update Jint 3.0.0-beta-2060 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15110
* Update xUnit 2.6.6 & xUnit Analyzers 1.10.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15112
* Update StackExchange.Redis 2.7.17 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15111
* Added feature ID in braces to feature name for clarity by @brunoAltinet in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/10391
* Fix logged in user style in RTL by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15108
* Mention project in the OC docs (Lombiq Technologies: OCC-167) by @porgabi in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14795
* Merge Release/1.8 on main by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15117
* Fix a typo by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15118
* Fix delivery method key in OrchardCore_Email section by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15120
* Fix release notes format by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15121
* Adding in "datetime" and "timespan" support by @jeffolmstead in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/5546
* OpenIddict 5.1.0 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15122
* Cleanup the MVC project by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15115
* yessql.db -> OrchardCore.db by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/7446
* Update Jint 3.0.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15132
* Prevent frontend search if Azure AI is not configured by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15135
* Update AngleSharp 1.1.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15139
* Sqllite DatabaseName was not read from appsettings by @microposmp in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15138
* Move rule service interfaces into OC.Rule.Services namespace by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/13431
* Admin Template view not found. by @microposmp in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15141
* Replace SiteNameValidAttribute with StringLengthAttribute by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/13434
* Use Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14712
* Remove obsolete code by @TFleury in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/12955
* Fixing accessibility problems and HTML validation errors in built-in themes (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-83) by @DemeSzabolcs in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/11243
* Cleanup ISmsService by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15142
* Fix TheAdminTheme layout margin and padding by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15143
* Fix SectionDisplayDriver prefix by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15123
* Prefill template name when creating a template. by @microposmp in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15145
* Update the height of the admin content by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15153
* Eliminate the anti-discovery pattern in Elasticsearch by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15134
* Renaming and cleaning up search services by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15156
* Revert "yessql.db -> OrchardCore.db (#7446)" by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15167
* Make Full-Text and Display-Text field support String Type by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15176
* Update YesSql 4.1.0 by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15179
* Add DiscoverableSterotypes to GraphQLContentOptions by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15175
* Add jQuery as a dependency to ContentPreviewEdit (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-142) by @Psichorex in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15183
* Update libphonenumber-csharp 8.13.29 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15185
* use 'var' instead of explicit type (IDE0007 and IDE0008) by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15189
* Simplify new expression (IDE0090) by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15188
* Use concrete types when possible for improved performance by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15190
* Adding Validate Pull Request GitHub Actions workflow to check PRs for merge conflicts (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-141) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15114
* Simplify Collection initialization (IDE0300) by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15187
* Cleanup exceptions by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15192
* Doc text should end with period. Use Count over Any() by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15191
* Add descriptive exception for Azure-Vault service by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15178
* Linking Orchard Core Walkthroughs module in tutorials README (Lombiq Technologies: NEST-113) by @DemeSzabolcs in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15202
* Cleanup Admin Menu by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15199
* Adding the Issue Metrics Action to generate metrics on how we manage issues (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-139) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15041
* Fix multiple suggestions by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15204
* Make TriggerEvent retnrun WorkflowExecutionContext by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14281
* Fix string comparison changes in YesSql queries by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15212
* Cleanup permission providers by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15205
* Use ReadOnly Session when indixing content items by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15216
* Wrong placement is applied by @microposmp in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15174
* Make Sqlite database name configurable by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15209
* Fix Sitemap timestamp format by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15229
* Use invariant culture for rendering iso date and time by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15230
* Fix TheTheme navbar by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15231
* Fix Layer rules UI by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15234
* Add guidance when connecting to a SQL Server using untrusted cetrificate by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15210
* Skip DeleteObjectsAsync call if there are no items to delete by @AndreySurkov in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15239
* Implemented GraphQL query for retrieving current user data and its custom settings by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15215
* Update HtmlSanitizer 8.1.839-beta by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15238
* Remove Newtonsoft by @jtkech in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14572
* Fix: #5533 - Enabled reading request body for HTTP POST requests. by @emrahtokalak in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/13853
* use nameof by @SimonCropp in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15244
* use some collection expressions by @SimonCropp in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15250
* simplify some linq by @SimonCropp in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15249
* Make NullStringLocalizer & HtmlLocalizer Public by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/10939
* Change how AdminMenu is registered and remove trapping errors in default serialize by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15261
* Update Microsoft.Identity.Web 2.17.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15262
* Throw when SQLite file not found by @Skrypt in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15245
* Update Microsoft.NET.Test.Sdk 17.9.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15268
* Remove unnecessary argument in ThrowIfNullOrEmpty by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15272
* Fix ILocalClock perf issues by @Skrypt in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15270
* Fix Sára's contributor profile (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-144) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15277
* Update NodaTime 3.1.11 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15278
* Fix errors when role names have different casing by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15113
* Fix search icon by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15279
* Upgrade graphql  to 7.7.2 by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15129
* Remove useless placeholder file by @TFleury in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/12954
* Address multiple warnings by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15271
* Refactor DbConnectionValidator by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/12363
* Remove hardcode from LocalizationPart shape name by @AndreySurkov in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15266
* Update theme.md - creation of wwwroot folder was missing by @MarGraz in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15265
* Optimize ElasticIndexingService by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15227
* Select all Content Types by @Skrypt in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15285
* Update libphonenumber-csharp 8.13.30 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15295
* Update README.md added missing parts in "From VS (manual way)" by @MarGraz in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15296
* Update GraphQL 7.8.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15284
* regenerate activity URL when importing Workflows by @lampersky in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15291
* fix enabling Amazon S3 storage provider without configuration causes exception by @neglectedvalue in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15293
* Fix IDE warnings by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15300
* Cleanup using statements by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15302
* Login providers should not be visible if the service is not configured by @lampersky in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15305
* Javascript error when there are no deployment steps by @lampersky in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15306
* Admin route by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15251
* Rename AddAdminMenu extension to AddAdminNode by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15316
* Prevent an unhandled exception has occurred while executing the request. by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15317
* User Localization settings by @Skrypt in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/13181
* Fix recipe steps with polymorphic types by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15320
* Bump OpenIddict to 5.2.0 and replace the OpenIddict.AspNetCore metapackage by individual references by @kevinchalet in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15323
* Decorate the interactive OpenID endpoints with `[DisableCors]` by @kevinchalet in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15324
* CORS settings fix by @lampersky in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15318
* Fix GraphQL Explorer by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15319
* monaco-editor 0.46 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15288
* .NET 8.0.2 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15325
* Update Microsoft.Extensions.Azure 1.7.2 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15330
* Fix app-based TFA setup screen <kbd> encoding (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-145) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15334
* Update Azure.Extensions.AspNetCore.DataProtection.Blobs 1.3.3 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15331
* Update HtmlSanitizer 8.1.844-beta by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15333
* Update Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience 8.2.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15329
* Update Azure.Extensions.AspNetCore.Configuration.Secrets 1.3.1 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15332
* Add onload attribute to ReCaptchaTagHelper by @mroskamp in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15283
* Fix the build in ReCaptchaTagHelper by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15339
* Add CustomSettingsConstants by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15282
* Remove obsolete CustomSettingsService methods by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15280
* Update xUnit packages by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15343
* Use IHttpClientFactory.CreateClient() instead of static HttpClient by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15350
* Add warnings for CORS policies by @giannik in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15258
* Markdig 0.35.0 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15352
* Fix workflow icons by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15370
* Add docs for Full-Text Search for Admin UI by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15369
* Add multiple constructors for ListValueOption by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15368
* Update StackExchange.Redis  2.7.20 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15379
* Update the ContentElement constructor by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15365
* DisplayAsync to return actual pre-rendered IHtmlContent  by @ns8482e in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15247
* Register JsonSerializerOptions in the IoC Container by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15328
* Fix CORS assets by running gulp by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15380
* Support comments in recipes by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15386
* Bootstrap 5.3.3 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15374
* Fix steporder.js by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15387
* Remove benchmark summary comments by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15393
* Expose CultureDictionaryRecordKey properties by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/11358
* Update Jint 3.0.1 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15402
* Update libphonenumber-csharp 8.13.31 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15403
* Update Serilog.AspNetCore 8.0.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15151
* Update StackExchange.Redis 2.7.23 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15409
* Support Create and CreateAsync in DataMigrationManager by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15396
* Azure Email Communication Services (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-129) by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15254
* Reduce Constructor Injections by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15395
* Update Serilog.AspNetCore 8.0.1 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15410
* Fix Smtp namespace by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15418
* Use HashCode.Combine in FeatureHash by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15414
* Add WithPart<> and WithSettings<> builder methods by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15426
* Update Microsoft.Identity.Web 2.17.1 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15427
* Update StackExchange.Redis 2.7.27 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15428
* Add cache busting parameter to media thumbnails and links in Media Library (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-143) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15276
* Update AngleSharp  1.1.1 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15433
* Add LoginInfoConverter by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15422
* Check SubResource Integrity by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/9947
* fix(AuditTrail): allow to see action option only if user have view au… by @PiemP in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15432
* Update MailKit & MimeKit 4.4.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15437
* Avoid null reference exception by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15420
* Update OpenIddict 5.3.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15453
* Use SHA384.HashDataAsync by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15461
* Fix script tag helper dependencies inheriting the script's HTML attributes by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15438
* Update SixLabors.ImageSharp.Web 3.1.1 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15468
* Update README.md Custom User Settings by @MarGraz in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15454
* Fix the serialization of Feature profile document by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15465
* Configure JsonOptions by default by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15460
* Author field perhaps is null by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15457
* Remove TitlePart wrapper when it is hidden by @douwinga in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15471
* Fix log file path based on ORCHARD_APP_DATA environment variable by @ns8482e in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15364
* Update Manifest.cs description of "OpenID Authorization Server" feature by @MarGraz in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15407
* Use ContentSerializerJsonOptions by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15474
* Fix Contributor Map workflow (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-146) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15349
* Update AngleSharp 1.1.2 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15476
* Set Owner field in  graphql  null able  by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15477
* Add LoginInfoJsonConverter to ContentSerializerJsonOptions by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15480
* Don't run SRI locally be default by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15486
* Update Fluid 2.6.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15489
* Issue 15492 bugfix: Prevent session connection closing in WorkflowTypeController by @M-Lipin in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15495
* Add docs for ThemeSelectorResult by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/11147
* .NET 8.0.3 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15493
* Update README.md, Custom User Settings, wrong link to the video by @MarGraz in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15487
* Update StackExchange.Redis 2.7.33 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15503
* Adjust text of marker file hint (8270) by @w-ko in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15392
* Update Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience 8.3.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15494
* Make CultureDictionaryRecordKey record struct by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15413
* Fix functional test command docs by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15398
* Update the jint options to support System.text.json by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15449
* Markdig 0.36.0 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15513
* Update libphonenumber-csharp 8.13.32 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15515
* Update Microsoft.Identity.Web 2.17.2 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15517
* Update Markdig 0.36.2 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15516
* Update DocumentFormat.OpenXml 3.0.2 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15523
* Add OrchardCoreConstants by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/13438
* Update the Readme and add a way to get in touch by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15531
* Dojo Course 3 videos in docs (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-137) by @porgabi in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15475
* Update Fluid 2.7.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15542
* Update GraphQLFilter example by @MikeKry in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/12843
* Update HtmlSanitizer 8.1.860-beta by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15550
* Update Facebook link on Readme by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15559
* Add missing Cloudsmith attribution (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-150) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15547
* Remove unnecessary check in AzureAISearchIndexingService by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15555
* Update OpenId module, write more information to log by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/10641
* Fix menu item deletion by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15500
* Update JOptions configuration (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-149) by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15534
* Fix graphql api with parameters by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15529
* Use JsonPath.Net for JSONPath selectors (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-148) by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15524
* Add Navbar shape for Liquid by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15532
* Log graphql error by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15544
* Set listpart property in listpartviewmodel by @aliamiras in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15560
* Consolidate admin required fields by @xtomas in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15545
* add porgabi as a contributor for code by @allcontributors in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15566
* Allows to serialize 'SitemapSource' derived types by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15571
* Minimal API by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15294
* Add SelectNode and Remove method to JsonDynamicObject class by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15509
* Add a way to hide ContentTypeDefinitionSettings by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15472
* Fix Input Widget css style and add alternate for Widget-Forms to allow customization by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15563
* Update 1.9.0 Release notes after STJ recent changes by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15587
* Update ZString 2.6.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15592
* Update libphonenumber-csharp 8.13.33 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15591
* Restore user credentials in  HttpBackgroundJob by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14329
* Convert Themes views to shapes by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15589
* Rename Method in MinimalAPI by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15594
* Named Part Fields are not indexed by @lampersky in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14366
* Cleanup Navbar by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15595
* Update OpenIddict 5.4.0 by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15597
* Verify the return type in migration methods prior to invoking them by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15596
* Avoid NRE in ElasticQueryService.SearchAsync() by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15600
* Update Microsoft.Identity.Web 2.17.3 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15605
* Check the null for searchResult.Value before call GetResultsAsync() by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15598
* Fix Taxonomy Serialization by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15615
* Ensure Search Icon shows up on any search module by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15611
* Improve notification filter performance by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15610
* Adjust content type condition to evaluate to true when no content is displayed by @rwawr in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15603
* Improve the Pager extensions by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15617
* Document the removal of PopulateSettings in 1.9 release notes by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15618
* Publishing preview packages daily (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-151) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15552
* Fix HTML style for ThemeEntry by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15609
* Do not convert IShape to dynamic by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15622
* Remove unnecessary FrozenDictionary by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15623
* Update Microsoft.Identity.Web 2.17.4 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15626
* Refine hashing usages by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15621
* Remove unnecessary null coalescing in settings.MergeArrayHandling by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15599
* Improve ShapeTableManager performance by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15620
* Cleanup Serializers by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15633
* Add HTML support to notification summary by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15607
* Remove obsolete methods from INotifier by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15631
* Save byte array allocations by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15630
* Simplify ShapeDescriptorIndex by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15632
* Use FrozenDictionaries in ShapeTables by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15651
* Some improvements around building common shapes by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15652
* fontawesome 6.5.2 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15656
* Update Fluid 2.8.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15660
* Upgrade to Jint 3.0.2 by @lahma in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15667
* Seal private and internal types by @lahma in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15668
* Microsoft Entra ID authentication with multi-tenancy by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14803
* Fix Content Drivers by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15680
* Fix Content Culture Picker by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15681
* Add extensions to register conditions in the Rules module by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15645
* Remove redirect to index after settings update by @M-Lipin in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15679
* Update libphonenumber-csharp  8.13.34 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15669
* Several perf improvements around shape processing by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15661
* Implement local storage emulator support for the Amazon S3 Media module, documentation (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-153) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15677
* Add missing string comparison type to equals comparisons by @lahma in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15675
* Trumbowyg 2.28.0 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15699
* Suppress incorrect "CA1822:Mark members as static" analyzer violation in ShapeProxyBenchmark (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-156) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15707
* .NET 8.0.4 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15704
* Add Redis Health Check by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/13589
* Fix analyzer errors on latest net9.0 SDK by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15712
* Fix AISearch index prefix and index creation by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15723
* Update GitHub Actions actions to the latest versions by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15619
* Add LoginForm Shapes by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15701
* Fix Issue-15709: Fix NullReferenceException in CacheTicketStore.RenewAsync method by @M-Lipin in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15711
* Reduce contention by caching shellsetting accessors by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15728
* Update Azure.Identity by @infofromca in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15746
* Update xunit.analyzers 1.12.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15748
* Update xUnit 2.7.1 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15747
* Update xunit.runner.visualstudio 2.5.8 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15749
* Configure Token provider from the corresponding provider by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15627
* Fix shortcode button with easy mde editor by @Skrypt in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15741
* Update Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience 8.4.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15750
* Use constants for the common role names by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15751
* Brand Twitter to X by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15528
* allow users to setup default content type settings visibility by @lampersky in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15733
* Add StringExtensions Unit Tests by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14099
* Add MariaDB support docs by @infofromca in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15744
* Use static typing in ContentFieldsProvider instead of dynamic. by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15763
* Update localization README regarding pluralization by @rjpowers10 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/13141
* Assign menu children correctly from MenuPartDisplayDriver by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15766
* Collapsed fields collision in graphql by @lampersky in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/13927
* Fix Monaco and Trumbowyg editor settings by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15768
* ImageSharp.Web 3.1.2 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15767
* Jint 3.1.0 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15730
* Display selected culture as native name in content culture picker by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15776
* Removing unnecessary and outdated CODEOWNERS (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-154) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15692
* Adding GitHub Actions workflow to close stale PRs (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-154) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15710
* Update MailKit & MimeKit to 4.5.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15769
* Fix ConcurrencyException with Sitemaps when saving two content items at once (Lombiq Technologies: GOV-33) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15777
* Fix Dockerfile to allow successful build by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15784
* Fix frontend assets being outdated (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-158) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15735
* Remove ReCaptchaLoginFilter  by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15736
* Display Drivers validation issue by @Skrypt in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15488
* 13715: Added edit button to the ContentPickerField Edit view by @dannyd89 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/13764
* Treat warnings as errors during CI build (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-157) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15764
* Update Azure.Identity 1.11.1 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15791
* Update Azure.Extensions.AspNetCore.DataProtection.Blobs 1.3.4 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15790
* Update Microsoft.Identity.Web 2.17.5 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15789
* Update Microsoft.Extensions.Azure 1.7.3 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15788
* Update libphonenumber-csharp 8.13.35 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15795
* Add OC.HealthChecks.Abstractions, and health Checks options to show details by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/13590
* Fixing InvalidOperationException when using responseWrite scripting method by @lampersky in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/12213
* Add TypePartDefinition to BagPartEditViewModel by @giannik in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15798
* Avoid null exception when href is null. by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15765
* Refresh and simplify mkdocs instructions by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15802
* Makes the GraphQL user type reusable. by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15691
* Update ContentUpdateTask, add SetCorrelationId function by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/10928
* Update  Azure.Identity 1.11.2 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15801
* Release notes about SectionDisplayDriver breaking changes by @Skrypt in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15792
* Add missing contributors (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-154) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15693
* Fix unrecognized relative links in the docs and GitHub Actions workflow to validate building the documentation (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-155) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15695
* Update Fluid 2.9.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15812
* Revising contribution docs (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-154) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15706
* Welcome first-time contributors (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-154) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15708
* Rename Identifier property to usernameOrEmail for clearity by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15814
* add sobotama as a contributor for code by @allcontributors in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15819
* Validate JavaScript condition in Layer Rule on save (#12901) by @sobotama in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/12968
* Add GraphQL support to UserPickerField by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15389
* Adding Azure and AWS-specific Image Caches of ImageSharp (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-136) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15028
* Update Microsoft.Identity.Web 2.18.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15821
* Update SixLabors.ImageSharp.Web.Providers.AWS & SixLabors.ImageSharp.Web.Providers.Azure 3.1.2 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15822
* Merge release/1.8.3 to main by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15829
* Added 'view' permissions for media folders. by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15173
* Export specific workflow by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/11939
* More automatic documentation build checks (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-164) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15887
* Update xUnit 2.8.0 & xunit.analyzers 1.13.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15911
* Autoroute handle prefix as constant by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15918
* Revert "Remove redirect to index after settings update" by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15925
* Move UserType to OC.Users.Core by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15926
* Update OpenIddict 5.5.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15910
* Remove leftover issue_metrics workflow (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-166) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15932
* Update Jint 3.1.1 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15912
* Prevent AliasPart index from throwing a null exception by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15934
* Reduce allocations in ShellScope by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15937
* Add a way to queue releasing shell context from setting display drivers by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15875
* Use dotnet ForEachAsync implementation by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15936
* Replace IDataMigrationManager.UpdateAsync(string) with IDataMigrationManager.UpdateAsync(IEnumerable<string>) by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15909
* Convert  v1.9 to v2.0 by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15938
* Remove unnecessary async code by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15941
* Expose media field attribute media text in GraphQL query by @rpedu in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15945
* Use CultureInfo.GetCultureInfo() whenever it's possible by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15948
* Update NLog.Web.AspNetCore 5.3.10 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15947
* add rpedu as a contributor for code by @allcontributors in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15949
* Fix eagerly executed task in CustomSettingService by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15942
* Cleanup Migrations by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15933
* Fix docs broken logo and redirect from old URLs (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-165) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15927
* Update release publishing guide and move it to an issue template (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-163) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15830
* Fix creating Culture and LocalizationSet by @M-Lipin in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15714
* Run Functional Tests - All Databases automatically (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-167) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15951
* Upgrade YesSQL 5.0 by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15957
* load flowpart and bagpart resources by name by @giannik in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15954
* Update Workflow Type by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15953
* Remove Obsolete APIs by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15939
* Add EnableThreadSafetyChecks support and Enable it for all test by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15961
* Running Functional Tests - All Databases on the main branch too (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-167) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15956
* Update libphonenumber-csharp 8.13.36 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15972
* Adding a backport workflow by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15971
* OpennIddict.Core 5.5.0 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15991
* Fixed an issue where feature profile expressions could not be serialized. by @TonyWoo in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15976
* add TonyWoo as a contributor for code by @allcontributors in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15993
* Adding Content Item ApiController.cs endpoints documentation by @MarGraz in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15512
* Fix the search admin menu item by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16007
* Update Microsoft.Identity.Web 2.18.1 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16003
* Update NLog.Web.AspNetCore 5.3.11 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16011
* Update Azure.Identity 1.11.3 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16009
* Replace Irony.Core deprecated package by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16012
* Add null check in AutorouteEntries by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16020
* Add type checking when importing types from recipes #15979 by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15980
* Update the sort logic in the assets grouping by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15815
* Check if element type is as requested by @tropcicstefan in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15974
* Set up CodeRabbit for AI code reviews (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-159) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15813
* Adding Autocomplete to Stereotype by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16025
* Remove Newtonsoft.Json entry from docs libraries by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16034
* Update 2.0.0.md by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16015
* "Pleaes" typo in Close stale PRs workflow (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-168) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16045
* ListQueryObjectType should be filtered from the database by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16037
* Update JsonPath.Net 1.0.3 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16032
* Implement more conversions from JsonDynamicValue by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15816
* Fixes comparing content fields in Liquid by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16053
* Bump OpenIddict to 5.6.0 by @kevinchalet in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16054
* .NET 8.0.5 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16058
* Support deserializing string to numeric values by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16060
* Benchmarking documentation (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-170) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16061
* Remove unnecessary placement rules from OrchardCore.Content by @giannik in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16029
* Update Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience 8.5.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16062
* Update Azure.Storage.Blobs 12.20.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16063
* Update OrchardCore.OpenId to explicitly reference Microsoft.IdentityModel.Protocols.OpenIdConnect by @kevinchalet in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16057
* Update ContentItemVersionId nullable in graphql by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16030
* Register a default token provider to allow admin to rest password. by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16075
* Clear SiteSettings Cache after the update by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16068
* Remove the ReturnUrl from the user's profile link by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16071
* Add a way to specify username to send notifications to by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16073
* Update Fluid 2.10.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16086
* Fix Azure Search AI docs by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16085
* Update JsonPath.Net 1.0.4 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16089
* Update libphonenumber-csharp 8.13.37 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16090
* Update  MailKit & MimeKit 4.6.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16087
* Fix template preview by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16096
* OC project templates should show net8.0 only by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16048
* Make YesSqlOptions configurable from configuration provider by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16079
* Add ISmtpService extension methods by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14772
* Fix AzureAI Search issues by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16093
* Remove warnings related to CA1805 by @lahma in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16100
* Fix show password button on the login screen (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-172) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16098
* Remove warnings related to CA1707 by @lahma in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16101
* BagPart/FlowPart editors couldn't be collapsed by @microposmp in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16099
* Add LinkedIn & Discord links to README.md by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16113
* Update JsonPath.Net 1.0.5 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16115
* Update Microsoft.Identity.Web 2.18.2 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16131
* Update JsonPath.Net 1.1.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16132
* Improvements for Search Azure AI by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16127
* Cleanup IContentManager by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16077
* Update Microsoft.NET.Test.Sdk 17.10.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16142
* Register GraphQL types as transient by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16143
* Fix casting during workflow instance restart  by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16139
* Fix distributed cache document invalidation by @mvarblow in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16147
* Issue management docs, auto-close and triage comment workflow (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-161) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15820
* Corrects the mapping of types to features in ITypeFeatureProvider  by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15793
* Show recipe error instead if throwing an exeption by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16148
* Fix unreliable unit test by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16145
* Update Jint 3.1.2 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16157
* Update xunit 2.8.1 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16158
* Remove extra comma by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16159
* Do not expose unsupported queries in the GraphQL schema. by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16134
* Fix SixLabors.ImageSharp.Web reference in 1.8.3 release notes (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-173) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16150
* Correctly escape public media URLs. by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16135
* Use MinimalAPI for two-factor authentication code request by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16174
* Use MinimalAPI for marking notifications as read by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16175
* Prevent Functional Tests - All Databases triggering on PR comments (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-171) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16097
* Allow any user to manage two-factor by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16130
* Release packages when a preview workflow is manually triggered by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16183
* Mark duplicate permissions as Obsolete by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16176
* .NET 8.0.6 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16192
* Make IExternalLoginEventHandler  support  update User‘s properties by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/12845
* Add helpful ShellFeaturesManager extensions by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16191
* Simplify error handling in recipe execution by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16195
* ControllerTypeExtensions should look for ControllerBase type by @Skrypt in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16187
* Use TextArea in MarkdownField By Default by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16189
* Simplifies creating child containers for tenants. by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16190
* Update Microsoft.Identity.Web 2.19.0 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16199
* Add helpful SiteService extension by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16193
* Fixes building the GraphQL schema. by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16184
* Remove old non-async Alter* content definition method references from the docs and templates (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-177) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16228
* Configure Https Async by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16222
* Add supported_cultures liquid filter by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16208
* Move ContentCulturePicker logic back to driver for easier shape override (Lombiq Technologies. OCORE-178) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16230
* Correct the order of module configurations by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16227
* Add example for adding basic content type filters by @MikeKry in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16111
* Make SQL query source more forgiving for returning content items by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16234
* fix serialization issue with stj by @giannik in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16236
* Constrain the paths created DefaultAreaControllerRouteMapper with and AdminAreaControllerRouteMapper (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-176) by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16217
* Add SiteSettings for custom settings and to get settings by name by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16220
* Fix ListNotificationOptions assignment by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16239
* Fix JsonDynamicArray enumeration in dynamic usages by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16246
* Fixes the content items admin menu when types are not creatable by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16247
* Remove duplicate condition in LinkFieldIndexProvider.Describe() by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16251
* Avoid NRE in SharedViewCompilerProvider.GetCompiler() by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16252
* Add missing version assignment in StyleBlock by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16241
* Seal all Startup, Configuration and Filter classes by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16238
* Seal all migration and background tasks classes by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16253
* Fix Content-Types and Content-Parts search UI by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16237
* Update libphonenumber-csharp 8.13.38 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16255
* Add target attribute to Menu  by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15636
* Fix missing activity display driver by @NinjaChurch in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/13947
* Remove unecessary Convert.ToBoolean() in RuleBenchmark by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16240
* Remove duplicate unit tests by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16250
* Remove unnecessary RequireSettings.Condition check in ResourceRequiredContext by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16242
* Bug report and issue management improvements (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-174) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16206
* Auto-close old community metrics issue(s) (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-175) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16207
* Makes sure data migrations are assigned to a single feature only by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16257
* Fix that Comment Issue on Triage runs for PR milestone changes too (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-179) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16261
* Fixes several minor issues when building the GraphQL schema by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16151
* Add option to set CORS exposed headers by @vsezima in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16258
* add vsezima as a contributor for code by @allcontributors in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16262
* Make all extensions/Helpers classes static and seal some classes by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16264
* Don't Serialize in GetValue<> of Dictionary Extensions by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16224
* Migrate to Central Package Management by @tmat in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16235
* add tmat as a contributor for code by @allcontributors in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16268
* Fix solution build file references (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-180) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16269
* Remove Gitter references (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-181) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16270
* Add serialisation compatibility of TimeSpan and DateTime  by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16205
* Update Azure.Identity 1.11.4 by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16286
* Update NuGet references automatically once a week by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16284
* Fixes menu links in the blog theme by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16312
* Fix possible NREs in SeoMetaSettingsHandler by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16311
* Remove npm assets from dependabot by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16305
* Fix comments to clarify that an absolute path does not work for OrchardCore_Media__AssetsPaths by @rjpowers10 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16293
* Bump the all-dependencies group across 1 directory with 8 updates by @dependabot in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16319
* Fixing that saving workflow fails when using decimal comma (,) by @microposmp in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16274
* Remove unneeded AWSSDK.SecurityToken package reference (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-185) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16320
* Expose Content Fields Indexing via GraphQL for content field filtering by @mdameer in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16092
* add mdameer as a contributor for code by @allcontributors in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16327
* Remove unnecessary check in ScriptTag by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16328
* Added option to select the Target in Link Field by @vengi83644 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16326
* Remove unnecessary cast by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16333
* Fix Azure Email docs page JSON code block (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-186) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16334
* Check HttpContext in Facebook ScriptsMiddleware before use it by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16331
* Prevent NuGet audit warnings from failing the CI builds (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-184) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16317
* Remove unnecessary null coalescing operator by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16332
* Adds an overload to RegisterBeforeDispose() by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16322
* Avoid auto complete for OpenID scopes by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16160
* Update navigation links with target element (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-187) by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16341
* Bump the all-dependencies group with 3 updates by @dependabot in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16335
* Fix Facebook widgets recipe migration (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-188) by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16347
* Fix Twitter module breaking the Workflows editor (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-189) by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16350
* Liquid syntax support for CorrelateTask by @lampersky in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/12021
* Implement a default service to link local user accounts with external ones during the registration process by @PiemP in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16110
* Correction of a clerical error by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16367
* Adds more features back that were lost due to the removal of Newtonsoft  by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16292
* Fix Wysiwyg/Trumbowyg editor colors when dark theme enabled by @mdameer in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16356
* Fixes that type/feature mappings are not available during setup by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16324
* Fix for case when src is not provided by @SzymonSel in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16368
* Fix JsonDynamic related object serialisation problem in Jint. by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16298
* Style blockquote in markdown editor by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16390
* Remove extra space in first_time_contributor.yml by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16394
* Hide "Number of items closed" from Discussion Metrics (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-183) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16315
* Improving community GitHub Actions workflows (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-182) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16295
* Bump the all-dependencies group with 10 updates by @dependabot in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16365
* Fixes missing dependencies in the ShellBlueprint by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16379
* Remove 'Target' from LinkFieldIndex by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16397
* Fix theme manager script by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16386
* Added unit tests for populating the type feature provider by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16399
* Remove set as startup task button for non-event activities by @mdameer in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16351
* Fix graphql where clause when database schema is configured by @mdameer in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16364
* Fix non-debug version loaded for certain static resources when debug mode is enabled by @mdameer in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16406
* Bump the all-dependencies group with 7 updates by @dependabot in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16407
* .NET 8.0.7 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16413
* Deserialize compressed documents correctly by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16415
* Declare known-converters and use them in DocumentJsonSerializerOptions by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16417
* Fix Elasticsearch Query API by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16424
* Fix ExpandoObject property access by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16432
* Fix Sitemap Import/Export by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16436
* Removing invalid `[FromForm]` from `TenantApiController.Setup` (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-191) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16439
* Fixing async voids (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-192) by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16441
* Fix lost ReturnUrl param after changing localization by @maksim-markin in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16325
* add maksim-markin as a contributor for code by @allcontributors in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16443
* Removes a reference to options in RequireSettings by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16451
* Fix footer in darkmode  (Lombiq Technologies: NEST-515) by @Psichorex in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16444
* Fixes that the media library uses the wrong file extensions by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16449
* Use Semaphore instead of lock in DefaultShapeTableManager by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16456
* Suppress Check For Unhandled Security Metadata by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16437
* Font awesome 6.6.0 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16455
* Fix the QueriesDocument and the Queries UI by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16402
* Add new helpful Entity Extensions by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16457
* Minor cleanup on 2.0.0 release notes by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16462
* Seal and cleanup all recipe handlers by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16464
* Correct zero length check expressions by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16463
* Update MimeKit to 4.7.1 - High Vulnerability by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16472
* Update Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16469
* Update Jint by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16471
* Setup with saved password by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16466
* Bump the all-dependencies group with 16 updates by @dependabot in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16474
* Update Fluid.Core, YesSQL, and Shortcodes by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16470
* OpenId UI Enhancements by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16467
* Small optimizations for the ExtensionManager by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16382
* Make it possible to add Razor HTML content to the shape as a property by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14867
* Make ResourcesTagHelper extensible by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16329
* Handle invalid recipe files from breaking the harvester by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16490
* Add RemovePart<TPart> extension by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16491
* Move Media Permissions to Media.Core by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16493
* fix for "can't add Part when Named Part is already added" by @lampersky in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16495
* Add CanHandleModelAsync by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16501
* Bump the all-dependencies group with 11 updates by @dependabot in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16503
* Additional warning about `<resources type="..." />` in NuGet. by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16507
* Keep only important virtual methods in drivers by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16508
* Bump the all-dependencies group with 5 updates by @dependabot in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16519
* Renaming Query should not clone by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16527
* Clean up the SectionDisplayDriverBase and seal more methods in SiteDisplayDriver by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16528
* Add AddTenantReloadWarningWrapper() helpful extension by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16532
* Seal User Events Display Drivers by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16536
* Seal all display drivers by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16535
* Fix Taxonomy Term Removal by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16538
* Workflow pruning task by @deanmarcussen in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16533
* Keep only important methods in ContentPartDisplayDriver and ContentFieldDisplayDriver by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16530
* Add Sortable dependency to script using Sortable by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16531
* PoParser PERF by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15943
* Add Blazor guide for decoupled cms. by @ns8482e in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15213
* Check model object in CreateEndpoint to avoid NRE by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16243
* Improved MediaField Graphql support by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15003
* Disable autocomplete for password fields by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16544
* Disable old media field GraphQL fields by default. by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16546
* Bump the all-dependencies group with 7 updates by @dependabot in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16549
* .NET 8.0.8 by @agriffard in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16550
* Convert to file-scope namespaces by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16539
* Add .git-blame-ignore-revs file by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16559
* Fix wrong autocomplete=new-password on the current password field. by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16558
* Add HttpContextExtensions for GetActionContextAsync by @infofromca in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16557
* Fire the login failed event only once when a known user login fails. by @mvarblow in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16552
* Additional logs for ElasticSearch failures by @AndreySurkov in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16564
* Return services from workflow registration extension methods by @deanmarcussen in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16568
* Fix localization rule \Localization\[CultureName]\[ModuleId].po by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16419
* Add Message template to The Theme and unify font-awesome injection by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16569
* Create global.json file by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16560
* Define formatting rules by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16567
* Use transitive pinning and update dependencies by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16566
* Throws an exception if the datetime cannot be converted. by @hyzx86 in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16288
* Remove Index post action in Layers by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16571
* Workflow trimming (pruning) improvements by @Piedone in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16565
* Refactorings in preparation of .NET 9.0 support by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16575
* Enable implicit usings by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16574
* Seal all controllers by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16576
* Fix SQL document queries don't work on older existing tenants (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-195) by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16581
* Add UserConfirmed workflow event for user email confirmation by @davidpuplava in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16584
* add davidpuplava as a contributor for code by @allcontributors in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16591
* Fix Json Merge object by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16589
* Add permission check in edit WorkflowTrimmingDisplayDriver by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16593
* Rename Twitter/X workflow task to match updated view names by @davidpuplava in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15930
* Do not include "Change password" item in the user menu if local login is disabled by @mvarblow in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16598
* Add a perf-importent Notification index by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16590
* Fix user menu text alignment by @mvarblow in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16596
* Fix invalid HTML (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-196) by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16607
* Add a base document-index to allow indexing non-content items in AzureAI search by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16611
* Add AddNavigationProvider extension by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16618
* Fix User Registration by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16621
* Add AddSiteDisplayDriver extension by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16617
* Add AddPermissionProvider extension by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16622
* Fix hot reload issue. by @shinexyt in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16624
* add shinexyt as a contributor for code by @allcontributors in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16626
* Fix formatting by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16627
* Fix case insensitive dictionary problem (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-197) by @sarahelsaig in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16623
* Correct the configuration of JsonSerializerOptions  by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16634
* fix validation error rendering on radio/checkbox by @ns8482e in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16637
* Fix comment in DocumentJsonSerializerOptionsConfiguration by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16639
* Use const when possible by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16635
* Optimizing Sitemap Creation with Batched Content Items by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16636
* Fix driver results initialization method usage with dynamic caching by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16644
* Fix MissingActivity view by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16642
* Cache Top-unread notification in the navar for better performance. by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16641
* Remove duplicate ManagePackageVersionsCentrally by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16647
* Add .git-blame-ignore-revs file by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16648
* Add IUserTimeZoneService to make it easier to mock UserTimeZoneService by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16614
* Use the static 'ValueTask.FromResult' instead of 'new ValueTask' by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16659
* Use ValueTask in INavigationProvider by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16650
* Bump webpack from 5.88.2 to 5.94.0 in /src/OrchardCore.Modules/OrchardCore.AuditTrail by @dependabot in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16640
* Bump webpack from 5.88.2 to 5.94.0 in /src/OrchardCore.Modules/OrchardCore.Apis.GraphQL by @dependabot in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16660
* Remove tenant list from OpenID scopes by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16651
* Add default OpenId scopes by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16661
* Add "Create & Setup" button to the create tenant view by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16665
* Use Expiry-sliding in notification cache by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16662
* Merge Release 1.8.4 into main by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16668
* Revert driver initialization logic and adapt Notifications cache by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16677
* Add missing await keywork in ShapeResult by @sebastienros in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16683
* Add AdminNavigationProvider to cleanup AdminMenu by @MikeAlhayek in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16674
* Use ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull() by @hishamco in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16684
* Support implicit casts from JsonDynamicValue. by @gvkries in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16696
* Ensure correct feature is enabled AAD by @giannik in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16694

## New Contributors
* @thatplatypus made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14611
* @ovekaaven made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15084
* @porgabi made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/14795
* @Psichorex made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15183
* @AndreySurkov made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15239
* @SimonCropp made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15244
* @MarGraz made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15265
* @M-Lipin made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15495
* @w-ko made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15392
* @aliamiras made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15560
* @xtomas made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15545
* @rwawr made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15603
* @sobotama made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/12968
* @rpedu made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15945
* @TonyWoo made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15976
* @NinjaChurch made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/13947
* @vsezima made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16258
* @tmat made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16235
* @mdameer made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16092
* @maksim-markin made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16325
* @davidpuplava made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16584
* @shinexyt made their first contribution in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16624

**Full Changelog**: https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/compare/v1.8.4...v2.0.0

## Important Upgrade Instructions

Prior to making the leap to Orchard Core 2.0, it's crucial to follow a step-by-step upgrade process. Begin by upgrading your current version to 1.8, resolving any obsolete warnings encountered along the way, and guaranteeing that every site successfully operates on version 1.8.3. This approach ensures that all sites are seamlessly transitioned to 1.8. Subsequently, proceed with confidence to upgrade to 2.0. Prior to initiating this upgrade, thoroughly review the documented list of breaking changes provided below to facilitate a smooth and hassle-free transition.

## Breaking Changes

### Drop `Newtonsoft.Json` Support

The utilization of [Newtonsoft.Json](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Newtonsoft.Json) has been discontinued in both **YesSql** and **OrchardCore**. Instead, we have transitioned to utilize `System.Text.Json` due to its enhanced performance capabilities. To ensure compatibility with `System.Text.Json` during the serialization or deserialization of objects, the following steps need to be undertaken:

  - If you are using a custom deployment steps, change how you register it by using the new `AddDeployment<>` extension. This extension adds a new service that is required for proper serialization. For instance, instead of registering your deployment step like this:

```csharp
services.AddTransient<IDeploymentSource, AdminMenuDeploymentSource>();
services.AddSingleton<IDeploymentStepFactory>(new DeploymentStepFactory<AdminMenuDeploymentStep>());
services.AddScoped<IDisplayDriver<DeploymentStep>, AdminMenuDeploymentStepDriver>();
```

change it to the following:

```csharp
services.AddDeployment<AdminMenuDeploymentSource, AdminMenuDeploymentStep, AdminMenuDeploymentStepDriver>();
```

  - If you are using a custom AdminMenu node, change how you register it by using the new `AddAdminNode<>` extension. This extension adds a new service that is required for proper serialization. For instance, instead of registering your custom admin menu nodep like this:

```csharp
services.AddSingleton<IAdminNodeProviderFactory>(new AdminNodeProviderFactory<PlaceholderAdminNode>());
services.AddScoped<IAdminNodeNavigationBuilder, PlaceholderAdminNodeNavigationBuilder>();
services.AddScoped<IDisplayDriver<MenuItem>, PlaceholderAdminNodeDriver>();
```

change it to the following:

```csharp
services.AddAdminNode<PlaceholderAdminNode, PlaceholderAdminNodeNavigationBuilder, PlaceholderAdminNodeDriver>();
```

  - Any serializable object that contains a polymorphic property (a base type that can contain sub-classes instances) needs to register all possible sub-classes this way:

```csharp
services.AddJsonDerivedTypeInfo<UrlCondition, Condition>();
```

Alternatively, you can simplify your code by using the newly added extensions to register custom conditions. For example,

```csharp
services.AddRule<HomepageCondition, HomepageConditionEvaluator, HomepageConditionDisplayDriver>();
```

 - Any type introduced in custom modules inheriting from `MenuItem`, `AdminNode`, `Condition`, `ConditionOperator`, `Query`, `SitemapType` will have to register the class using the `services.AddJsonDerivedTypeInfo<>` method. For example,

```csharp
services.AddJsonDerivedTypeInfo<SqlQuery, Query>();
```

 - The extension `PopulateSettings<T>(model)` was removed from `PartFieldDefinition`. If you are using this method in your code, you'll have to get the settings using the `Settings` object directly. For instance, if you have this code,

 ```csharp
 public override IDisplayResult Edit(ContentPartFieldDefinition partFieldDefinition)
 {
    return Initialize<NumericFieldSettings>("NumericFieldSettings_Edit", model => partFieldDefinition.PopulateSettings(model));
 }
 ```

 You'll change it to the following:

 ```csharp
  public override IDisplayResult Edit(ContentPartFieldDefinition partFieldDefinition)
 {
    return Initialize<NumericFieldSettings>("NumericFieldSettings_Edit", model => 
    {
        var settings = partFieldDefinition.GetSettings<NumericFieldSettings>();
        model.Hint = settings.Hint;
        // ...
    });
 }
 ```

### Queries

Previously, any query type had to inherit from `Query` and required its own distinct type (e.g., `SqlQuery`, `LuceneQuery`, `ElasticQuery`). However, with [pull request #16402](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16402), creating a custom type for each query type is no longer necessary. This update involved changes to the `IQueryManager` and `IQuerySource` interfaces, as well as the `Query` class. Additionally, a new project, `OrchardCore.Queries.Core`, was introduced.

A migration process has been implemented to transition existing queries into the new structure, ensuring no impact on existing tenants. 

#### Key Changes

- **Modification of Interfaces and Classes**: Updates were made to the `IQueryManager`, `IQuerySource` interface, and `Query` class to accommodate the new structure.
- **Addition of `OrchardCore.Queries.Core`**: This new project supports the updated query handling mechanism.

#### Implementing `IQuerySource`

We now request implementations of `IQuerySource` using keyed services. Below is an example of how to register new implementations:

```csharp
services.AddQuerySource<SqlQuerySource>(SqlQuerySource.SourceName);
```

This approach allows for more flexible and modular query handling in OrchardCore.

#### Handlers

We now have handlers for dealing with queries. To manipulate a query using a handler, implement the `IQueryHandler` interface. This provides a structured way to extend and customize the behavior of queries within the framework.

### Twitter Module

The `Twitter` module has been rebranded to `X`.

If you were using the `OrchardCore_Twitter` configuration key to configure the module, please update the configuration key to `OrchardCore_X`. The `OrchardCore_Twitter` key continues to work but will be deprecated in a future release.

### Users Module

- The `Login.cshtml` has undergone a significant revamp. The previous `AfterLogin` zone, which allowed filters for injecting shapes, has been replaced. Now, you can inject shapes using drivers by implementing `IDisplayDriver<LoginForm>`. For example, the 'Forgot Password?' link is injected using the following driver:

```csharp
public class ForgotPasswordLoginFormDisplayDriver : DisplayDriver<LoginForm>
{
    private readonly ISiteService _siteService;

    public ForgotPasswordLoginFormDisplayDriver(ISiteService siteService)
    {
        _siteService = siteService;
    }

    public override async Task<IDisplayResult> EditAsync(LoginForm model, BuildEditorContext context)
    {
        var settings = await _siteService.GetSettingsAsync<ResetPasswordSettings>();

        if (!settings.AllowResetPassword)
        {
            return null;
        }

        return View("LoginFormForgotPassword_Edit", model).Location("Links:5");
    }
}
```

- The `ForgotPassword.cshtml` has undergone a significant revamp. The previous `AfterForgotPassword` zone, which allowed filters for injecting shapes, has been replaced. Now, you can inject shapes using drivers by implementing `IDisplayDriver<ForgotPasswordForm>`. For example, the ReCaptcha shape is injected using the following driver:

```csharp
public class ReCaptchaForgotPasswordFormDisplayDriver : DisplayDriver<ForgotPasswordForm>
{
    private readonly ISiteService _siteService;

    public ReCaptchaForgotPasswordFormDisplayDriver(ISiteService siteService)
    {
        _siteService = siteService;
    }

    public override async Task<IDisplayResult> EditAsync(ForgotPasswordForm model, BuildEditorContext context)
    {
        var settings = await _siteService.GetSettingsAsync<ReCaptchaSettings>();

        if (!settings.IsValid())
        {
            return null;
        }

        return View("FormReCaptcha_Edit", model).Location("Content:after");
    }
}
```

- The `ResetPassword.cshtml` has undergone a significant revamp. The previous `AfterResetPassword` zone, which allowed filters for injecting shapes, has been replaced. Now, you can inject shapes using drivers by implementing `IDisplayDriver<ResetPasswordForm>`. For example, the ReCaptcha shape is injected using the following driver:

```csharp
public class ReCaptchaResetPasswordFormDisplayDriver : DisplayDriver<ResetPasswordForm>
{
    private readonly ISiteService _siteService;

    public ReCaptchaResetPasswordFormDisplayDriver(ISiteService siteService)
    {
        _siteService = siteService;
    }

    public override async Task<IDisplayResult> EditAsync(ResetPasswordForm model, BuildEditorContext context)
    {
        var settings = await _siteService.GetSettingsAsync<ReCaptchaSettings>();

        if (!settings.IsValid())
        {
            return null;
        }

        return View("FormReCaptcha_Edit", model).Location("Content:after");
    }
}
```

Previously, users were only able to reset their password through email when the "Reset Password" feature was enabled. However, we've enhanced this functionality to offer users the flexibility of resetting their password using either their email or username. Consequently, the `Email` property on both the `ForgotPasswordViewModel` and `ResetPasswordViewModel` have been deprecated and should be replaced with the new `UsernameOrEmail` property for password resets.

- The `Register.cshtml` has undergone a significant revamp. The previous `AfterRegister` zone, which allowed filters for injecting shapes, has been replaced. Now, you can inject shapes using drivers by implementing `IDisplayDriver<RegisterUserForm>`. For example, the ReCaptcha shape is injected using the following driver:

```csharp
public class RegisterUserFormDisplayDriver : DisplayDriver<RegisterUserForm>
{
    private readonly ISiteService _siteService;

    public RegisterUserFormDisplayDriver(ISiteService siteService)
    {
        _siteService = siteService;
    }

    public override async Task<IDisplayResult> EditAsync(RegisterUserForm model, BuildEditorContext context)
    {
        var settings = await _siteService.GetSettingsAsync<ReCaptchaSettings>();

        if (!settings.IsValid())
        {
            return null;
        }

        return View("FormReCaptcha_Edit", model).Location("Content:after");
    }
}
```

- Two-factor authentication (2FA) is now available for all users. Previously, only users with permission to access the admin area could set up their own 2FA methods, although all users could still use 2FA if it was set up by an admin. To enable this change, the method `IsRequiredAsync()` in both the `ITwoFactorAuthenticationHandlerCoordinator` and `ITwoFactorAuthenticationHandler` interfaces has been updated to `IsRequiredAsync(IUser user)`.

- A new `UserConfirmedEvent` workflow event is now available. This event is triggered when a user successfully confirms their email address using the link sent during user registration.

- We are introducing a new interface, `IUserTimeZoneService`, to replace the existing `UserTimeZoneService`. If your project directly injects `UserTimeZoneService`, you will need to switch to using `IUserTimeZoneService` instead.

### Notifications Module

The endpoint for marking notifications as read has been updated. Previously the route was `/api/notifications/read`, and now it is `/Notifications/MarkAsRead`. This change will only affect you if you have overridden the `UserNotificationNavbar` view.

### Contents

The `IContentManager` interface was modified. The method `Task<IEnumerable<ContentItem>> GetAsync(IEnumerable<string> contentItemIds, bool latest = false)` was removed. Instead use the method that accepts `VersionOptions` by providing either `VersionOptions.Latest` or `VersionOptions.Published` will be used by default.

Additionally, the `GetContentItemByHandleAsync(string handle, bool latest = false)` and `GetContentItemByIdAsync(string contentItemId, bool latest = false)` were removed from `IOrchardHelper`. Instead use the method that accepts `VersionOptions` by providing either `VersionOptions.Latest` or `VersionOptions.Published` will be used by default.

Lastly, we dropped support for AllVersions option in `VersionOptions`. Instead, you can use the new `GetAllVersionsAsync(string contentItemId)` method on `IContentManager`.

### Media Indexing

Previously, `.pdf` files were automatically indexed in the search providers (Elasticsearch, Lucene or Azure AI Search). Now, if you want to continue to index `.PDF` file you'll need to enable the `OrchardCore.Media.Indexing.Pdf` feature.

Additionally, if you need to enable indexing for text file with `.txt`, `.md` extensions, you will need the `OrchardCore.Media.Indexing.Text` feature.

If you need to enable indexing for other extensions like (`.docx`, or `.pptx`), you will need the `OrchardCore.Media.Indexing.OpenXML` feature.

### SMS Module

In the past, we utilized the injection of `ISmsProvider` for sending SMS messages. However, in this release, it is now necessary to inject `ISmsService` instead.

Additionally, `Twilio` provider is no longer enabled by default. If you want to use Twilio SMS provider, you must enable the provider by visiting the email settings `Configuration` > `Settings` > `Email` and see the `Twilio` tab.

### Display Management

In this release, the signatures of the `UpdateAsync()` method within the `SectionDisplayDriver` base class have undergone modifications. Previously, these signatures accepted the `BuildEditorContext` parameter. However, with this update, all signatures now require the `UpdateEditorContext` instead. This alteration necessitates that every driver inheriting from this class adjusts their contexts accordingly.

Here are the updated signatures:

1. **From:**
   `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TModel model, BuildEditorContext context)`
   **To:**
   `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TModel model, UpdateEditorContext context)`

2. **From:**
   `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TModel model, TSection section, BuildEditorContext context)`
   **To:**
   `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TModel model, TSection section, UpdateEditorContext context)`

3. **From:**
   `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TSection section, BuildEditorContext context)`
   **To:**
   `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TSection section, UpdateEditorContext context)`. This method is now obsolete.

These adjustments ensure compatibility and adherence to the latest conventions within the `DisplayDriver` class.

Additionally, we've enhanced display performance by streamlining the display drivers. To achieve this, the following methods have been marked as obsolete:

- `IDisplayResult Display(TModel model)`
- `IDisplayResult Edit(TModel model)`

and removed the following methods:

- `Task<IDisplayResult> DisplayAsync(TModel model, IUpdateModel updater)`
- `IDisplayResult Display(TModel model, IUpdateModel updater)`
- `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TModel model, IUpdateModel updater)`
- `Task<IDisplayResult> EditAsync(TModel model, IUpdateModel updater)`
- `IDisplayResult Edit(TModel model, IUpdateModel updater)`

At the same time, we've introduced the following static methods in the `DisplayDriverBase`:

- `Task<IDisplayResult> CombineAsync(params IDisplayResult[] results)`
- `Task<IDisplayResult> CombineAsync(IEnumerable<IDisplayResult> results)`

Similar refactoring was done to `SectionDisplayDriver` class. The following methods have been marked as obsolete:

- `Display(TSection section, BuildDisplayContext context)`
- `Display(TSection section)`
- `Edit(TSection section, BuildEditorContext context)`
- `UpdateAsync(TSection section, UpdateEditorContext context)`
- `UpdateAsync(TSection section, IUpdateModel updater, string groupId)`

and removed the following methods:

- `UpdateAsync(TModel model, TSection section, IUpdateModel updater, UpdateEditorContext context)`
- `UpdateAsync(TSection section, IUpdateModel updater, UpdateEditorContext context)`
- `UpdateAsync(TSection section, IUpdateModel updater, string groupId)`
- `UpdateAsync(TSection section, UpdateEditorContext context)`
- `EditAsync(TSection section, BuildEditorContext context)`
- `DisplayAsync(TSection section, BuildDisplayContext context)`

!!! note
    To enhance your project's performance, address any warnings generated by the use of these obsolete methods. Please note that these methods will be removed in the next major release.

A new `SiteDisplayDriver` base class was introduced to simplify the process of adding a UI settings.
 
!!! note
    With the new `SiteDisplayDriver` base class for custom settings, you no longer need explicit checks like `context.GroupId.Equals(GroupId, StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase)` as the base class handles this check for you.

A new extension has been introduced to simplify the registration of site setting drivers. Instead of using `service.AddScoped<IDisplayDriver<ISite>, CustomSettingsDisplayDriver>()`, you can now register it with the more streamlined `service.AddSiteDisplayDriver<CustomSettingsDisplayDriver>()`.

Similarly, the `ContentPartDisplayDriver` base class have undergone modifications. The following methods were marked obsolete:

- `IDisplayResult Display(TPart part)`
- `IDisplayResult Edit(TPart part)`
- `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TPart part, IUpdateModel updater)`

At the same time, the following method was removed:

- `Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(TPart part, IUpdateModel updater)`

Moreover, the `ContentFieldDisplayDriver` base class have undergone modifications. The following methods were marked obsolete:

- `UpdateAsync(TField field, IUpdateModel updater, UpdateFieldEditorContext context)`
- `Update(TField field, IUpdateModel updater, UpdateFieldEditorContext context)`

At the same time, the following method was added:

- `UpdateAsync(TField field, UpdateFieldEditorContext context)`

### GraphQL Module

The GraphQL schema may change because fields are now always added to the correct part. Previously, additional fields may have been added to the parent content item type directly. 

You may have to adjust your GraphQL queries in that case.

Additionally, the `GetAliases` method in the `IIndexAliasProvider` interface is now asynchronous and has been renamed to `GetAliasesAsync`. Implementations of this interface should be modified by updating the method signature and ensure they handle asynchronous operations correctly.

#### Media fields

The schema for media fields has been updated. Instead of separate lists for `fileNames`, `urls`, `paths`, and `mediatexts`, these fields are now grouped under a single `files` type to simplify data binding on the front end.

Please update your existing queries as shown in the following example:

Before:

```graphql
{
  article {
    contentItemId
    image {
      mediatexts(first: 10)
      urls(first: 10)
    }
  }
}
```

After:

```graphql
{
  article {
    contentItemId
    image {
      files(first: 10) {
        mediaText
        url
      }
    }
  }
}
```

A compatibility switch has been introduced to allow continued use of the old `fileNames`, `urls`, `paths`, and `mediatexts` fields. To restore the legacy fields, add the following AppContext switch to your startup class:

```csharp
AppContext.SetSwitch("OrchardCore.Media.EnableLegacyMediaFieldGraphQLFields", true);
```

### Resource Management

Previously the `<resources type="..." />` Razor tag helper and the `{% resources type: "..." %}` Liquid tag were only capable of handling a hard-coded set of resource definition types (`script`, `stylesheet`, etc). Now both can be extended with `IResourcesTagHelperProcessor` to run custom rendering logic. To make this possible, the `OrchardCore.ResourceManagement.TagHelpers.ResourceType` and `OrchardCore.Resources.Liquid.ResourcesTag.ResourceType` enums have been replaced with a common `OrchardCore.ResourceManagement.ResourceTagType`. It was renamed to avoid confusion with `ResourceDefinition.Type`. This change does not affect the uses of the Razor tag helper or the Liquid tag in templates of user projects, but it affects published releases such as NuGet packages. Any themes and modules that contain `<resources type="..." />` in a Razor file (e.g. _Layout.cshtml_) must be re-released to generate the updated `.cshtml.cs` files, because the old pre-compiled templates would throw `MissingMethodException`.

### Workflows Module

Previously, the `CreateContentTask`, `RetrieveContentTask`, and `UpdateContentTask` in the workflow's CorrelationId was updated each time with the ContentItemId of the current content item. Now, the CorrelationId value will only be updated if the current workflow's CorrelationId is empty.

Additionally, a new workflow-scoped script function `setCorrelationId(id:string): void` was added, that you can use to update the workflow's CorrelationId.

### Navigations Module

The `BuildNavigationAsync` method in the `INavigationProvider` interface was optimized by changing its return type from `Task` to `ValueTask`.


## Change Logs

### Azure AI Search Module

Introducing a new "Azure AI Search" module, designed to empower you in the administration of Azure AI Search indices. When enabled with the "Search" module, it facilitates frontend full-text search capabilities through Azure AI Search. For more info read the [Azure AI Search](../reference/modules/AzureAISearch/README.md) docs.

### New ImageSharp Image Caches for Azure Blob and AWS S3 Storage

The Microsoft Azure Media and Amazon S3 Media modules have new features for replacing the default `PhysicalFileSystemCache` of ImageSharp that stores resized images in the local `App_Data` folder. Instead, you can now use Azure Blob Storage with the Azure Media ImageSharp Image Cache feature (that utilizes [`AzureBlobStorageImageCache`](https://docs.sixlabors.com/articles/imagesharp.web/imagecaches.html#azureblobstorageimagecache)), and AWS S3 with the Amazon Media ImageSharp Image Cache feature (that utilizes [`AWSS3StorageCache`](https://docs.sixlabors.com/articles/imagesharp.web/imagecaches.html#awss3storagecache)). Depending on your use case, this can provide various advantages. Check out [the Azure Media](../reference/modules/Media.Azure/README.md) and [the Amazon S3 Media](../reference/modules/Media.AmazonS3/README.md) docs for details.

### Deployment Module

#### New Extensions

Added new extensions to make registering custom deployment step easier:

- `services.AddDeployment<TSource, TStep>()`.
- `services.AddDeployment<TSource, TStep, TDisplayDriver>()`.
- `services.AddDeploymentWithoutSource<TStep, TDisplayDriver>()`.

#### Recipe Executions

Before this release, implementations of `IRecipeStepHandler` or `IRecipeEventHandler` would throw exceptions to report errors if something failed to import. However, this is no longer the recommended approach for error reporting.

Now, to handle errors, we have introduced a new property named `Errors` in the `RecipeExecutionContext`. This property allows you to log errors instead of throwing exceptions. These errors should be localized and must not contain any sensitive data, as they are visible to the end user. Exceptions are still used for logging additional information, but these are not shown to the end user.

Additionally, if an error occurs, a new custom exception, RecipeExecutionException, is thrown. For more info visit the [related pull-request](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16148/).

### Workflows Module

 The method `Task TriggerEventAsync(string name, IDictionary<string, object> input = null, string correlationId = null, bool isExclusive = false, bool isAlwaysCorrelated = false)` 
 was changed to return `Task<IEnumerable<WorkflowExecutionContext>>` instead.

#### New Events

 The following events were added:

- `UserConfirmedEvent`: this event triggers when a user successfully confirms their email address after registration.

### GraphQL Module

When identifying content types for GraphQL exposure, we identify those without a stereotype to provide you with control over the behavior of stereotyped content types. A new option, `DiscoverableSterotypes`, has been introduced in `GraphQLContentOptions`. This allows you to specify stereotypes that should be discoverable by default.

For instance, if you have several content types stereotyped as `ExampleStereotype`, you can make them discoverable by incorporating the following code into the startup class:

```csharp
services.Configure<GraphQLContentOptions>(options =>
{
    options.DiscoverableSterotypes.Add("ExampleStereotype");
});
```

The GraphQL module now allows for filtering content fields, making it easier to query specific content fields using GraphQL. This enhancement relies on having the `OrchardCore.ContentFields.Indexing.SQL` module enabled.

To filter content items based on a specific content field, you can use a query like this:

```graphql
product(where: {price: {amount_gt: 10}}) {
    contentItemId
    displayText
    price {
        amount
    }
}
```

### Email Module

The `OrchardCore.Email` module has undergone a refactoring process with no breaking changes. However, there are compile-time warnings that are recommended to be addressed. Here is a summary of the changes:

 - Previously, we used the injection of `ISmtpService` for sending email messages. In this release, it is now necessary to inject `IEmailService` instead.
 - The `SMTP` related services are now part of a new module named `OrchardCore.Email.Smtp`. To use the SMTP provider for sending emails, enable the `OrchardCore.Email.Smtp` feature.
 - If you were using the `OrchardCore_Email` configuration key to set up the SMTP provider for all tenants, please update the configuration key to `OrchardCore_Email_Smtp`. The `OrchardCore_Email` key continues to work but will be deprecated in a future release.
 - A new email provider was added to allow you to send email using Azure Communication Services Email. Click [here](../reference/modules/Email.Azure/README.md) to read more about the ACS module.
 
### Menu

`Menus` and `AdminMenus` now support specifying the target property.

### Admin Menu

The admin menu has been optimized with significant performance improvements and code enhancements. When adding a navigation provider to the admin menu, it is now recommended to use the new `AdminNavigationProvider` class rather than directly implementing the `INavigationProvider` interface in your project.

Furthermore, when passing route values to actions, it's a best practice to store these values in constant variables for maintainability and clarity. Below is an example demonstrating this approach:

```csharp
public sealed class AdminMenu : AdminNavigationProvider
{
    private static readonly RouteValueDictionary _routeValues = new()
    {
        { "area", "OrchardCore.Settings" },
        { "groupId", AdminSiteSettingsDisplayDriver.GroupId },
    };

    internal readonly IStringLocalizer S;

    public AdminMenu(IStringLocalizer<AdminMenu> stringLocalizer)
    {
        S = stringLocalizer;
    }

    protected override ValueTask BuildAsync(NavigationBuilder builder)
    {
        builder
            .Add(S["Configuration"], configuration => configuration
                .Add(S["Settings"], settings => settings
                    .Add(S["Admin"], S["Admin"].PrefixPosition(), admin => admin
                        .AddClass("admin")
                        .Id("admin")
                        .Action("Index", "Admin", _routeValues)
                        .Permission(PermissionsAdminSettings.ManageAdminSettings)
                        .LocalNav()
                    )
                )
            );

        return ValueTask.CompletedTask;
    }
}
```

A new extension has been introduced to simplify the registration of navigation providers. Instead of using `services.AddNavigationProvider<AdminMenu>()`, you can now register it with the more streamlined `services.AddNavigationProvider<AdminMenu>();`.

### Admin Routes

The `[Admin]` attribute now has optional parameters for a custom route template and route name. It works just like the `[Route(template, name)]` attribute, except it prepends the configured admin prefix. You can apply it to the controller or the action; if both are specified then the action's template takes precedence. The route name can contain `{area}`, `{controller}`, and `{action}`, which are substituted during mapping so the names can be unique for each action. This means you don't have to define these admin routes in your module's `Startup` class anymore, but that option is still available and supported. Take a look at this example:

```csharp
[Admin("Person/{action}/{id?}", "Person{action}")]
public sealed class PersonController : Controller
{
    [Admin("Person", "Person")]
    public IActionResult Index() { ... }

    public IActionResult Create() { ... }

    public IActionResult Edit(string id) { ... }
}
```

In this example, (if the admin prefix remains the default "Admin") you can reach the Index action at `~/Admin/Person` (or by the route name `Person`), because its own action-level attribute took precedence. You can reach Create at `~/Admin/Person/Create` (route name `PersonCreate`) and Edit for the person whose identifier string is "john-doe" at `~/Admin/Person/john-doe` (route name `PersonEdit`).

### Users Module

Added a new User Localization feature that allows to be able to configure the culture per user from the admin UI.

### Navbar

Added a new `Navbar()` function to Liquid to allow building the `Navbar` shape using Liquid. Here are the steps needed to add the `Navbar` shape into your custom Liquid shape:

1. Construct the shape at the beginning of the `layout.liquid` file to enable navbar items to potentially contribute to the resources output as necessary.

```
{% assign navbar = Navbar() | shape_render %}
```
2. Subsequently in the `layout.liquid` file, invoke the shape at the location where you want to display it.

```
{{ navbar }}
```

### Notifications Module

The`INotificationMessage` interface was updated to includes the addition of a `Subject` field, which facilitates the rendering of notification titles. Moreover, the existing `Summary` field has been transitioned to HTML format. This adjustment enables the rendering of HTML notifications in both the navigation bar and the notification center. Consequently, HTML notifications can now be created, affording functionalities such as clickable notifications.

Furthermore, the introduction of the `NotificationOptions` provides configuration capabilities for the notifications module. This structure comprises the following attributes:

- **`TotalUnreadNotifications`**: This property specifies the maximum number of unread notifications that are displayed in the navigation bar. By default, it is set to 10.
- **`DisableNotificationHtmlBodySanitizer`**: Notifications generated from workflows have their `HtmlBody` sanitized by default. This property allows you to disable the sanitization process if needed.
- **`AbsoluteCacheExpirationSeconds`**: Specifies the absolute maximum duration, in seconds, for which the top unread user notifications are cached when caching is enabled. A value of 0 does not disable caching but indicates that there is no fixed expiration time for the cache. You can set this value to define a maximum lifespan for the cached data before it is invalidated.
- **`SlidingCacheExpirationSeconds`**: Defines the sliding cache duration, in seconds, for unread user notifications when caching is enabled. By default, the cache is refreshed and extended for up to 1800 seconds (30 minutes) after each user activity. To disable sliding expiration, you can set this value to 0.

### Secure media files

Introduces a new "Secure Media" feature for additional control over who can access media files. For more info read the [Secure Media](../reference/modules/Media/README.md#secure-media) docs.

### Users Module

Enhanced functionality has been implemented, giving developers the ability to control the expiration time of different tokens, such as those for password reset, email confirmation, and email change, which are sent through the email service. Below, you'll find a comprehensive list of configurable options along with their default values: 
 
 | Class Name | Default Expiration Value |
 | ---------- | ------------------------ |
 | `ChangeEmailTokenProviderOptions` | The token is valid by default for **15 minutes**. |
 | `EmailConfirmationTokenProviderOptions` | The token is valid by default for **48 hours**. |
 | `PasswordResetTokenProviderOptions` | The token is valid by default for **15 minutes**. |

 You may change the default values of these options by using the `services.Configure<>` method. For instance, to change the `EmailConfirmationTokenProviderOptions` you can add the following code to your project

 ```csharp
 services.Configure<EmailConfirmationTokenProviderOptions>(options => options.TokenLifespan = TimeSpan.FromDays(7));
 ```

### Reloading Tenants

The recent addition in the [Pull Request](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15875) introduces the `IShellReleaseManager`, enabling you to initiate a shell release at the request's conclusion via the `RequestRelease()` method. This action is accessible from any service within the application. However, there's no assurance of immediate fulfillment since another service may utilize the same service and suspend the release request later. Should you need to suspend the request to release the shell, you can utilize the `SuspendReleaseRequest()` method to suspend the tenant release request and the tenant will not be released.

#### Reloading Tenants Display Drivers

When implementing a site settings display driver, you have the option to reload the shell (restart the tenant). If you choose to do so, manually releasing the shell context using `await _shellHost.ReleaseShellContextAsync(_shellSettings)` is unnecessary. Instead, you should use the new `IShellReleaseManager.RequestRelease()`. This ensures that the shell stays intact until all settings are validated. For instance, in `ReverseProxySettingsDisplayDriver`, the code was modified from this:

```csharp
public class ReverseProxySettingsDisplayDriver : SiteDisplayDriver<ReverseProxySettings>
{
    //
    // For  example simplicity, other methods are not visible.
    //

    public override async Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(ISite site, ReverseProxySettings settings, UpdateEditorContext context)
    {
        var user = _httpContextAccessor.HttpContext?.User;

        if (!await _authorizationService.AuthorizeAsync(user, Permissions.ManageReverseProxySettings))
        {
            return null;
        }

        //
        // For  example simplicity, other logic are not visible.
        //

        // If the settings are valid, release the current tenant.
        if (context.Updater.ModelState.IsValid)
        {
            await _shellHost.ReleaseShellContextAsync(_shellSettings);
        }

        return await EditAsync(site, settings, context);
    }
}
```

To this:

```csharp
public class ReverseProxySettingsDisplayDriver : SiteDisplayDriver<ReverseProxySettings>
{
    private readonly IShellReleaseManager _shellReleaseManager;
    private readonly IHttpContextAccessor _httpContextAccessor;
    private readonly IAuthorizationService _authorizationService;

    public ReverseProxySettingsDisplayDriver(
        // (1) Inject the new service.
        IShellReleaseManager shellReleaseManager
        IHttpContextAccessor httpContextAccessor,
        IAuthorizationService authorizationService)
    {
        _shellReleaseManager = shellReleaseManager;
        _httpContextAccessor = httpContextAccessor;
        _authorizationService = authorizationService;
    }

    //
    // For  example simplicity, other methods are not visible.
    //

    public override async Task<IDisplayResult> UpdateAsync(ISite site, ReverseProxySettings settings, UpdateEditorContext context)
    {
        var user = _httpContextAccessor.HttpContext?.User;

        if (!await _authorizationService.AuthorizeAsync(user, Permissions.ManageReverseProxySettings))
        {
            return null;
        }

        //
        // For  example simplicity, other logic are not visible.
        //

        // (2) Request a release at the end of the request.
        _shellReleaseManager.RequestRelease();

        return await EditAsync(site, settings, context);
    }
}
```

### Infrastructure

Prior to this release, if you had a module with multiple features, you had to use the `[Feature("your feature id")]` attribute to assign `IShapeTableProvider`, `IDataMigration`, and `IPermissionProvider` to a specific feature of the module that had a feature ID other than the module ID. With [pull-request 15793](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15793), this is no longer needed. However, `[Feature("...")]` is still required for the `Startup` class and controllers when you want the controller action to be available only when a specific feature is enabled.

### Site Settings

 - New extension methods named `GetSettingsAsync<T>()` and `GetSettingsAsync<T>("")` were added to the `ISiteService` interface. These methods allow you to retrieve specific settings with a single line of code. For example, to get the `LoginSettings`, you can now use:

```csharp
await _siteService.GetSettingsAsync<LoginSettings>();
```

Previously, achieving the same result required more code:

```csharp
(await _siteService.GetSiteSettingsAsync()).As<LoginSettings>();
```

 - A new extension method named `GetCustomSettingsAsync()` was added to the `ISiteService` interface. This method allows you to retrieve [custom settings](../reference/modules/CustomSettings/README.md). For example, to get custom settings of type 'BlogSettings', you can now use:

```csharp
ContentItem blogSettings = await _siteService.GetCustomSettingsAsync("BlogSettings");
```

Previously, achieving the same result required more code:

```csharp
var siteSettings = await _siteService.GetSiteSettingsAsync();
var blogSettings = siteSettings.As<ContentItem>("BlogSettings");
```

### Content Fields

Before this release, the `MarkdownField` used a single-line input field by default (named the Standard editor) and offered two different editors: Multi-line with a simple `textarea` and WYSIWYG with a rich editor. Now, by default, it uses a `textarea` as the Standard editor, and the separate Multi-line option has been removed.

You have nothing to do, fields configured with the Standard or Multi-line editors previously will both continue to work. Note though, that their editors will now be a `textarea`.

### Liquid

The `Culture` context variable got the new properties for a fuller Liquid culture support: `DisplayName`, `NativeName`, and `TwoLetterISOLanguageName`. These are the same as their .NET counterparts.

A new filter named `supported_cultures` was added to allow you to get a list of supported cultures. Here is an example of how to print the names of supported cultures using a list:

```
{% assign cultures = Culture | supported_cultures %}

<ul>
{% for culture in cultures %}
    <li>{{ culture.Name }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>
```

### Adding properties with additional tag helpers

The new `<add-property>` tag helper can be placed inside the `<shape>` tag helpers to add properties to the shape. This is similar to `prop-*` attributes, but you can also include Razor code as the `IHtmlContent` property value, which was impossible before. See more details [here](../reference/core/Placement/README.md#adding-properties-with-additional-tag-helpers).

### Sealing Types

Many type commonly used by modules can be `sealed`, which improves runtime performance. While it's not mandatory, we recommend that you consider applying this improvement to your own extensions as well. We've implemented this enhancement in the following pull-requests:

- [16253](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16253)
- [16238](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16238) 
- [16464](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16464)
- [16535](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16535)
- [16536](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16536)
- [16576](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/16576)

!!! note
    Do not seal classes that are used to create shapes like view-models. Sealing these classes can break your code at runtime, as these classes need to be unsealed to allow for proxy creation.

### Workflow Trimming

The Workflows module now has a `Trimming` feature to automatically clean up old workflow instances. See [the corresponding documentation](../reference/modules/Workflows/README.md#trimming) for details.

### Obsoleting `TrimEnd`

The methods `public static string TrimEnd(this string value, string trim = "")` from `OrchardCore.Mvc.Utilities` and `OrchardCore.ContentManagement.Utilities` are being obsoleted and replaced by 
`OrchardCore.ContentManagement.Utilities.TrimEndString(this string value, string suffix)`. This was done to prepare the code base for the next .NET 9.0 release which has a conflicting method 
with a different behavior.

### Miscellaneous

A new extension has been introduced to simplify the registration of permission providers. Instead of using `service.AddScoped<IPermissionProvider, CustomPermissionProvider>()`, you can now register it with the more streamlined `service.AddPermissionProvider<CustomPermissionProvider>()`.
