# Azure Media Storage (`OrchardCore.Media.Azure`)

The Azure Media Storage feature enables support for storing assets in Microsoft Azure Blob Storage.

The feature replaces the default `App_Data` local file based media store with an Azure Blob Media Storage Provider.

However, the url generated by the `AssetUrl` helpers, points to the Orchard Core site.
Media is still served by the Orchard Core site, and the Media Cache module takes responsibility for fetching media, on the fly,
from the Azure Blob Storage Container.

This allows the Azure Media Storage feature to support image resizing on the fly through integration with ImageSharp.Web.

## Configuration

The following configuration values are used by default and can be customized:

```json
    "OrchardCore.Media.Azure":
    {
      // Set to your Azure Storage account connection string.
      "ConnectionString": "", 
      // Set to the Azure Blob container name.
      "ContainerName": "somecontainer",
      // Optionally, set to a path to store media in a subdirectory inside your container.
      "BasePath": "some/base/path"
    },

```

Refer also the Configuration Section, and Media Section for other Media related configuration settings.

The Azure Media Storage module will check on Startup for a connection string, and container string.

If these are not present in `app_settings.json`, it will not enable the feature, and report an error message in the log file.

Note: Orchard Core will not create the Blob Container. It must already exist before enabling Azure

## Media Cache

The Media Cache feature will automatically be enabled when Azure Media Storage is enabled.

The Media Cache feature will cache files stored from Azure Blob Storage, to support image resizing.

The Media Cache feature allows Purging of the Media Cache files stored locally.

You might choose to use the Purging feature if you are fronting the media assets with a CDN.
After allowing a long enough period of time for the CDN to have fetched a significant amount of
Media assets, both resized, and full size, from the Media Cache you might consider purging the cache.

Note:
However please bear in mind that your CDN provider will likely have multiple Points of Presence
worldwide, and each of these will maintain their own cache, so while a local CDN PoP might have the asset
another PoP may not, until it is requested. At this stage the Media Cache will, if necessary, refetch the
asset from Azure Blog Storage, on the fly, and provide it to the CDN PoP.

CDN providers also clear their own caches at pre-determined times of their own devising, so while CDN’s
are a valuable caching and performance asset, it is important that they are always be able to 
re-fetch the source file, as and when required, which the Media Cache Module will automatically handle.

## Implementing another Remote Storage Provider

Orchard Core, the Media feature, Azure Media Storage, and Media Cache features, are fully extensible and
designed to support implementations of other Cloud Based Storage systems.

The `OrchardCore.Media.Azure` module is a good place to start investigating this.

Note: The Media Feature is designed to support one storage provider at a time, whether that is
local File Storage, the default, or Azure Blob Storage.
