src/docs/topics/docs-contributions/README.md, before:

# Contributing to the Orchard Core documentation

First of all, thank you for thinking about contributing to the docs! This is especially valuable while you're still new to Orchard because your experiences and revelations can help other newcomers a lot.

The [Orchard Core documentation site](https://docs.orchardcore.net/) is built with [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) and served from [Read the docs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/orchardcore/).

## Editing documentation pages

On every documentation page, including this one, you'll see an editor icon in the top right corner. If you click that you'll be able to do quick edits right within GitHub.

Alternatively, you can clone the whole [Orchard Core repository](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore) and edit any documentation file there. These you can find under the `src/docs` folder. If you open the Orchard Core solution (`OrchardCore.sln` in the root) in Visual Studio or another IDE then you'll be able to browse the files in the `OrchardCore.Docs` project under the `docs` solution folder. If you use a Markdown editor like the [Markdown Editor VS extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MadsKristensen.MarkdownEditor) then you'll see all the Markdown formatting and embedded images in a WYSIWYG manner, and links will work too.

## Running the documentation site locally

With MkDocs you can get the full docs.orchardcore.net experience locally too. If you are looking to contribute substantial amount of docs then please do run the site locally to make sure what you write will actually look like it should.

1. Follow the [MkDocs installation guide](https://www.mkdocs.org/#installation) to install Python. once you have Python installed you won't need to install MkDocs by hand, we'll do that in a next step. If you're on Windows be sure to add the Python `Scripts` folder to the `PATH` as noted there, otherwise none of the `mkdocs` commands will be found.
2. Open a command line in the root of the repository.
3. Run `pip3 install -r src/docs/requirements.txt` to install dependencies.
4. Run `mkdocs serve` to start the site. You'll then be able to browse it under http://127.0.0.1:8000.

Commit message:

More overview docs on features (Lombiq Technologies: OCORE-41) (#8449)
* Removing leftover core module overview page

* Overview landing page for the Reference section

* Adding overview to the Features module reference

* Removing redundant feature list

* Adding reference page for Home Route

* Fixing Lists module doc folder name

* Elaborating Setup, Taxonomies, Tenants docs a bit

* Adding Background Tasks doc page

* Adding overview for Users

* Typo

Co-authored-by: Antoine Griffard <agriffard@hotmail.com>

* Fixing formatting for Admin and AdminMenu doc pages

* First strokes of feature overview list

* Adding doc page for Reverse Proxy

* Adding docs page for Feeds

* Typo

* Organizing reference pages' menu items into categories

* Revert "Organizing reference pages' menu items into categories"

This reverts commit b3ea9a98724066d09f4b6180211cb4f4fcab59d1.

* Serilog Readme capitalization fix, first step

* Serilog Readme capitalization fix, second step

* Fixng Serilog readme casing in the nav too

* Updating docs contrib guide with more installation tips

* Fixing Admin Dasbhoard doc page title

* Adding missing Auto Setup link to the menu

* Adding categorized feature list to the Reference landing page

Co-authored-by: Antoine Griffard <agriffard@hotmail.com>

src/docs/topics/docs-contributions/README.md, after:

# Contributing to the Orchard Core documentation

First of all, thank you for thinking about contributing to the docs! This is especially valuable while you're still new to Orchard because your experiences and revelations can help other newcomers a lot.

The [Orchard Core documentation site](https://docs.orchardcore.net/) is built with [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) and served from [Read the docs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/orchardcore/).

## Editing documentation pages

On every documentation page, including this one, you'll see an editor icon in the top right corner. If you click that you'll be able to do quick edits right within GitHub.

Alternatively, you can clone the whole [Orchard Core repository](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore) and edit any documentation file there. These you can find under the `src/docs` folder. If you open the Orchard Core solution (`OrchardCore.sln` in the root) in Visual Studio or another IDE then you'll be able to browse the files in the `OrchardCore.Docs` project under the `docs` solution folder. If you use a Markdown editor like the [Markdown Editor VS extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MadsKristensen.MarkdownEditor) then you'll see all the Markdown formatting and embedded images in a WYSIWYG manner, and links will work too.

## Running the documentation site locally

With MkDocs you can get the full docs.orchardcore.net experience locally too. If you are looking to contribute substantial amount of docs then please do run the site locally to make sure what you write will actually look like it should.

1. Follow the [MkDocs installation guide](https://www.mkdocs.org/#installation) to install Python. once you have Python installed you won't need to install MkDocs by hand, we'll do that in a next step. If you're on Windows be sure to add the Python `Scripts` folder to the `PATH` as noted there, otherwise none of the `mkdocs` commands will be found. You may need to add your user's Scripts folder (something like `C:\Users\<user name>\AppData\Roaming\Python\Python39\Scripts`) to the `PATH` too.
2. Open a command line in the root of your clone of the repository.
3. Run `pip3 install -r src/docs/requirements.txt` to install dependencies.
4. Run `mkdocs serve` to start the site. You'll then be able to browse it under http://127.0.0.1:8000.
